https://www.sneezery.com
Studies show that sneezing can be funny
Expers say that sneezing can sometimes be funny. If he sneezed at somebody it's fun for him. However, if she sneezes at him, it will no longer be funny. Sneeze! 

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/rheumatoid-arthritis-30-minute-aerobic-exercise-help-lower-systolic-blood-pressure
One 30-minute session of moderate walking can lower the systolic blood pressure of women with rheumatoid arthritis, according to a new study.
Many people with rheumatoid arthritis also experience high blood pressure, which can lead to cardiovascular issues.
The authors of the study believe the effect of these exercise sessions can result in a permanent lowering of systolic blood pressure.
The study observed no similar reduction in diastolic blood pressure.
Thirty minutes of moderate physical activity can lower systolic blood pressure in women who have rheumatoid arthritis (RA) at rest, under stress, and generally, according to a new study from the University of São Paulo, Brazil.
Hypertension is of particular risk for people with RA, whose risk of dying from cardiovascular disease is 48% higher than that of the general population.
Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune inflammatory disease. With RA, one’s immune system incorrectly attacks healthy cells. The result is inflammation — along with painful swelling – often in multiple synovial joints at the same time.
Most commonly, RA affects joints in the knees, hands, and wrists. RA can damage the tissue in these joints, causing prolonged or chronic pain, balance issues, and deformity. It can also cause problems in the eyes, heart, and lungs, as well as other parts of the body.
The condition is frequently accompanied by hypertension and cardiovascular disease.
The direct cause of RA is currently unknown, although known risk factors include:
The study is published in the Journal of Human Hypertension.
Lower blood pressure with exercise
The study was a randomized controlled crossover trial that observed the effects of a single session of aerobic exercise on resting blood pressure, stress-related blood pressure, and a full day’s blood pressure in people with both RA and high blood pressure.
Participants in the study were all women since RA impacts them two to three times more often than men.
The trial’s 20 participants walked at moderate speeds on a treadmill for 30 minutes or served as a control group, resting.
Before and after each woman’s exercise session, the researchers measured resting blood pressure. In order to look at blood pressure in response to stress, blood pressure was also measured in response to the Stroop-Color Word Test and the Cold Pressor test.
The Stroop-Color Word Test is a cognitive challenge in which individuals are presented the names of colors printed in other hues. They are asked to recite the words’ actual color rather than the word its letters spell.
The Cold Pressor Test is a pain-tolerance test in which individuals place their hands in cold water — 4° C — to produce slight or moderate pain for as long as they keep their hand submerged.
Without exercise, it is expected that an individual’s systolic and diastolic blood pressure will rise by 18 mmHG and 11 mmHG, respectively, in response to the Cold Pressor Test. However, on days in which participants engaged in exercise, their systolic blood pressure actually decreased by 1 mmHG in response to the test.
After exercise, each individual was outfitted with an ambulatory blood pressure monitor for measuring hypertension over the following 24 hours.
The exercise group exhibited lowered resting systolic blood pressure by an average of 5 mHG, and stressed blood pressure by 7 mmHG. Twenty-four-hour systolic blood pressure was reduced by 5 mmHG.
This is a meaningful decrease in blood pressure since reductions of 5 mmHg in systolic blood pressure have been linked to clinical reductions in the risk of dying due to stroke (-14%), coronary artery disease (-9%), and all causes (-7%) for people with hypertension.
The researchers observed no effect on diastolic blood pressure resulting from the exercise.
Systolic blood pressure reflects the pressure in arteries as the heart beats. Diastolic blood pressure is the pressure in arteries while the heart is at rest. When one has a blood pressure test, it is usually shown as one number over the other — systolic pressure is the one on top.
How exercise helps lower blood pressure
The study’s senior investigator, Dr. Tiago Peçanha explained that “aerobic exercise reduces systolic blood pressure by promoting a relaxation of the blood vessels. We call this “vasodilation.”
Significantly, he added, “This can happen after a single session of aerobic exercise and prolong to several hours after the end of exercise, said Dr. Peçanha.
“We call this post-exercise hypotension, and this phenomenon may benefit people with high blood pressure,” he said.
Dr. Peçanha suggested that every time a person exercises, the temporary improvements in blood pressure may become more permanent and more prominent.
“It is like the effects of a medication that may improve your symptoms in the short term, but that will bring even better results over time with regular use,” said Dr. Peçanha.
Cardiologist Dr. Jayne Morgan, who was not involved in the study, agreed, saying, “Small decreases in blood pressure in response to acute exercise can accumulate over time when done repeatedly, and provide a more sustained decrease or decay in hypertension. And this is independent of the RA population.”
Considering varying results from other studies, Dr. Peçanha proposed 30 minutes may be the optimal exercise time for this purpose.
How rheumatoid arthritis and hypertension are linked
The high concurrence of RA and hypertension, said Dr. Morgan, “is thought to be due to the drugs used to treat the [RA] disease process, such as NSAIDS and steroids.
She added that RA patients tend to have less elasticity in their blood vessels, which can also cause blood pressure to rise, as well as generalized inflammation, including vasculitis, and inflammation of blood vessels.
“Moreover,” said Dr. Morgan, “those with chronic joint pain, whether it is caused by RA or some other factor, can often have high blood pressure because of the combination of both pain and inflammation, which can, in turn, raise cortisol levels in response to stress.”
Does exercise have the same effect on men with RA?
Asked whether the same results would be observed in male study participants, Dr. Peçanha said, “we don’t know really if that would also happen in men with rheumatoid arthritis. We assume that the effects of exercise are similar between women and men, but that is not always the case.”
He noted that while women get RA far more often than men, “there is data showing that although men are less affected by rheumatoid arthritis, the risk of future cardiovascular events is higher in men compared to women with RA.”
Therefore,” he said, “there is a need to investigate interventions that may benefit men with rheumatoid arthritis, and exercise could be a very effective approach.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/how-much-exercise-for-longevity-healthier-life
How much should you exercise for a longer, healthier life? Study offers clues
There are many factors when it comes to living a long and healthy life.
Some of these factors cannot be changed, while many others are modifiable.
A new study from researchers at the University of Jyväskylä has found that while exercise is important to living a long life, following other healthy lifestyle habits may have an even greater impact.
Many factors are involved when it comes to living a long and healthy life.
Some factors like genetics and gender cannot be changed. However, many other habits, such as nutrition, physical activity, reducing stress, not smoking, and proper sleep, can be modified.
A new study from researchers at the University of Jyväskylä in Finland that is currently being peer-reviewed has found that while exercise is important to living a long life, following other healthy lifestyle habits may have an even greater impact.
Longevity: Exercise may not be a factor on its own
Ms. Anna Kankaanpää, project researcher at the Gerontology Research Center in the Faculty of Sport and Health Sciences at the University of Jyväskylä in Finland and lead author of this study, told Medical News Today she decided to study the correlation between leisure-time physical activity and mortality risk because a previous study conducted at the University of Jyväskylä suggested that the association may be due to genetic influences.
“This finding contradicts results from a study involving Swedish twins, which found an association independent of genetic factors,” Kankaanpää continued. “I aimed to explore the reason for this discrepancy.”
Also, in the study, the researchers discuss that while previous research shows a link between exercise and a lower risk of mortality from all causes and cardiovascular disease, some previous research — such as this study published in December 2021 — found exercise does not reduce all-cause mortality and incident cardiovascular disease in older adults or people with chronic conditions.
This, the researchers say, may show there are other underlying factors than exercise alone affecting how long a person lives.
Physically active lifestyle linked to lower mortality risk
For this study, the research team used the data of more than 11,000 sets of adult twins from the Finnish Twin Cohort.
The amount of physical activity study participants had was assessed through questionnaires given in 1975, 1981, and 1990. Participants were placed into four groups: sedentary, moderately active, active, and highly active. And participants’ mortality was monitored until 2020, a span of 45 years.
At the end of the study, Kankaanpää and her team found that over a third — almost 40% — of participants from the sedentary group died by the mortality follow-up in 2020, which was the largest percentage of the four groups.
Participants in the active groups had between 15% and 23% lower all-cause mortality risk when compared to the sedentary group.
“I was not surprised (by these results) because numerous observational studies consistently indicate this association,” Kankaanpää commented.
How do other lifestyle factors affect mortality risk?
The researchers then factored in other lifestyle factors, including body mass index (BMI), health status, alcohol use, and smoking status.
When those factors were applied, the mortality rate of participants from the sedentary group dropped to a maximum of 7%.
The scientists also found that participants in the sedentary and highly active groups experienced accelerated biological aging when compared to the moderately active and active groups.
According to the study, the researchers believe the beneficial association of long-term exercise with reduced death risk was largely accounted for not only by exercise but also by other health-related factors.
Instead of regular physical activity being the cause of lower mortality risk, it may instead be an indicator of an overall healthy lifestyle, helping to extend a person’s life.
“It would be interesting to study whether the same holds for cause-specific mortality, such as mortality due to cardiovascular diseases,” Kankaanpää said when asked about the next steps in this research. “Moreover, I would like to investigate the reasons behind the accelerated biological aging observed in highly active participants.”
One healthy habit does not counteract unhealthy lifestyle
After reviewing this study, Dr. David Cutler, a board certified family medicine physician at Providence Saint John’s Health Center in Santa Monica, CA, told MNT that this study’s conclusion that the health benefits of being physically active may reflect healthy behavior in general, rather than exercise being the cause of reduced mortality, makes sense.
“(It) is consistent with my own observation that while many people exercise to gain health benefits, they often expect it to counteract unhealthful behaviors, which it does not,” Dr. Cutler explained. “This notion of ‘compensatory belief’ was supported by findings in the study.”
“Compensatory belief is the common notion that if you do something healthful it can counteract something unhealthful,” he continued. “For example, if you exercise it will eliminate the adverse effects of smoking. And in fact, what the study found was that the mortality in the sedentary group improved if you eliminated factors such as obesity and smoking.”
Dr. Cutler also said it is important to remember that engaging in healthful physical activity does not offset unhealthful diet, smoking, alcohol and drug use, or other detrimental activities like ignoring high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or diabetes.
“Significant improvements in health have been found worldwide through five simple measures: avoiding obesity, keeping blood pressure normal, not smoking, controlling diabetes, and treating high cholesterol,” he added. “Regular exercise might add to those benefits, but it won’t offset the detrimental effects of ignoring those proven beneficial pursuits.”
Some exercise is better than none for healthier, longer life
MNT also spoke about this study with Dr. Cheng-Han Chen, a board certified interventional cardiologist and medical director of the Structural Heart Program at MemorialCare Heart & Vascular Institute, Saddleback Medical Center in Laguna Hills, CA, about this study.
Dr. Chen said this study clearly shows that being able to perform some exercise is associated with decreased mortality compared to just being sedentary and that some exercise is better than none.
“There have been other studies in the last few years that showed that there is kind of a leveling off (of) the benefits (of exercise),” he explained. “A study on the number of steps people take every day. These studies have shown that after a certain amount of walking — around 7,000 or 8000 steps a day — the benefit levels off. So it’s not like if you walk 20,000 steps a day, you’re better off if you walk 7,000 steps a day.”
“(This study) corresponds with other (recent) studies that showed at least a moderate amount of exercise is helpful,” Dr. Chen added. “That it might not be necessary to have a very high degree of exercise to get the health benefits should be the message.”
Dr. Chen also commented that one of the limitations is that this research was done on a very set population of Finland, which is not necessarily the same as people in the United States.
“It would be nice to look at data on a more heterogeneous population in the United States,” he added.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/why-binge-drinking-is-more-dangerous-for-your-liver-than-daily-alcohol-consumption
Why binge drinking is more dangerous for your liver than daily alcohol consumption
Researchers say binge drinking combined with genetic risk can dramatically raise the risk of developing alcohol-related cirrhosis.
They add that having type 2 diabetes puts people who binge drink at even greater risk.
Experts say the study findings could help identify people who need targeted interventions to prevent liver disease.
Alcohol-related cirrhosis of the liver is often thought of as a disease related to chronic alcohol misuse, but new research is reporting that this deadly liver illness may also be triggered by binge drinking.
Researchers said that people who binge drink and also have a genetic makeup putting them at higher risk of alcohol-related cirrhosis may have a six-fold increased risk of developing the disease compared to study participants who reported drinking within daily limits and had low genetic predisposition to alcohol-related cirrhosis.
The researchers noted that this risk was even higher among binge drinkers who also had a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes.
Their findings were detailed in a study published in the journal Nature Communications.
In cases where all three risk factors are present — binge drinking, genetic disposition, and the presence of type 2 diabetes — drinking patterns may play a more significant role in development of cirrhosis than the volume of drinking, according to the researchers from University College London, the Royal Free Hospital, the University of Oxford, and the University of Cambridge.
“Many studies that look into the relationship between liver disease and alcohol focus on the volume of alcohol consumed,” said Linda Ng Fat, a first study author and a senior research fellow at the University College London, in a press statement. “We took a different approach by focusing on the pattern of drinking and found that this was a better indicator of liver disease risk than volume alone. The other key finding was that the more risk factors involved, the higher the ‘excess risk’ due to the interaction of these factors.”
“This research is important because it reveals that it’s not just how much you drink overall but the way that you drink matters,” added Pamela Healy, chief executive officer of the British Liver Trust. “Drinking a lot, quickly, or drinking to get drunk, can have serious consequences for your liver health.”
Researchers said the each factor raised the risk of liver disease even when viewed in isolation.
For example, those who engaged in heavy binge drinking, categorized as having 12 units of alcohol in a day at some point during a given week, were three times as likely to develop alcohol-related cirrhosis.
The risk for those with a high genetic predisposition was four times higher and the risk for those with type 2 diabetics was two times higher.
How binge drinking damages the liver
Dr. Theodore Strange, the chair of the department of medicine at Staten Island University Hospital in New York who was not involved in the study, told Medical News Today that the research makes an interesting distinction between the health risks of binge drinking as opposed to the sheer quantity of alcohol consumed.
“This needs to be studied more as there may be something that genetically predisposes some people to have more serious liver injuries from binge drinking that may be due to just the shock of that amount of alcohol to be processed so quickly as opposed to more sustained amounts over time,” he said.
Strange said the “shock of binging could possibly overwhelm the liver’s ability to metabolize alcohol” and may “acutely affect the ability of the cells of the liver to survive because of acute damage, which they may be genetically prone to.”
“Binge drinking puts immense strain on the liver, which is responsible for metabolizing alcohol,” Adam Zagha, the founder of Numa Recovery Centers and a certified mental health and addiction treatment who was not involved in the study, told Medical News Today. “When alcohol is consumed in excessive amounts, the liver is unable to keep up with the detoxification process, leading to the accumulation of toxins and the development of liver cirrhosis over time.”
What to know about binge drinking and liver disease
The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) defines binge drinking as episodes where blood alcohol concentration (BAC) is raised to 0.08% or more.
For men, that usually means consuming five or more drinks within two hours. For women, the same BAC is typically reached by consuming four or more drinks in the same time period.
Researchers said that liver disease is among the leading causes of premature death globally with an estimated 2% to 3% of the world’s population having cirrhosis (scarring of the liver) or liver disease.
“It is crucial for individuals with a family history of liver disease or those with a genetic predisposition to alcoholism to be aware of the increased risk they face,” said Zagha. “This knowledge can empower individuals to make informed decisions about their alcohol consumption and seek help before irreversible liver damage occurs.”
Dr. Steven Bell, a senior author of the study and a senior research associate at the University of Cambridge, noted in the press statement that liver disease, and particularly alcohol-related fatalities, has surged since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic.
“This study equips us with novel tools that are essential in pinpointing individuals at highest risk, thereby enabling us to direct interventions more effectively toward those who stand to benefit the most,” he said.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/psoriasis-and-chronic-inflammation
Managing chronic inflammation with psoriasis
Avoiding inflammatory foods:
Considering an anti-inflammatory diet:
Avoiding or quitting smoking:
Reducing alcohol intake:
Staying active:
Getting enough sleep:
Managing stress levels:
Although the exact cause of psoriasis is unknown, doctors consider it an immune-mediated inflammatory disease. This means that inflammation is at the root of this condition.
Up to 3% of adults in the United States have psoriasis. It causes skin symptoms, such as raised plaques and discoloration, and can also affect other parts of the body, such as the joints and eyes.
Experts believe inflammation is the common factor that can affect these different areas.
What causes inflammation in psoriasis?
In people with psoriasis, immune system dysfunction causes inflammatory cells to build up in the middle layer of the skin, known as the dermis. The condition also speeds the growth of skin cells in the epidermis, the outer skin layer.
Typically, skin cells grow and flake off in the span of a month. This process speeds up to just a few days in people with psoriasis. Instead of shedding, skin cells pile up on the skin’s surface, leading to uncomfortable symptoms such as raised plaques, scales, swelling, and redness or discoloration.
Even though psoriasis is a skin condition, the inflammation associated with psoriasis affects the entire body. It can increase the risk of heart disease, cancer, inflammatory bowel disease, and psoriatic arthritis.
Is there a way to treat inflammation?
Although inflammation in psoriasis is due to immune system dysregulation, studies suggest that people can reduce this inflammation through lifestyle and dietary changes. This can help reduce symptoms and improve quality of life.
Using these methods, many people who have psoriasis can maintain remission, which is a long period without experiencing psoriasis symptoms.
Additionally, certain medications to treat psoriasis work by reducing inflammation. These include topical corticosteroids, injectable biologics, and oral medications.
Everyone with psoriasis is different. Some people will require more extensive treatment than others.
How to manage inflammation
While there is currently no cure for psoriasis, the following habits may help reduce psoriasis-related inflammation and increase a person’s chances of experiencing remission.
Diet is strongly linked to systemic inflammation. Studies suggest that certain inflammatory dietary patterns can increase the risk of psoriasis and worsen symptoms.
A nutritious diet looks different for everyone. However, the following steps may help a person establish one:
Obesity is a risk factor for psoriasis development. People with psoriasis who have overweight or obesity may also experience more severe symptoms than people with a moderate weight.
Weight loss may reduce inflammatory markers and help reduce psoriasis symptoms in people with excess body weight.
A 2020 study found that people with psoriasis and overweight or obesity who reduced their body weight by 12% through a 10-week program experienced a 50–75% reduction in psoriasis severity. Participants experienced an average weight loss of 23 pounds.
Several habits can help reduce inflammation and improve psoriasis symptoms, such as:
When to seek medical help
Anyone experiencing a psoriasis flare who is interested in learning ways to reduce psoriasis symptoms and inflammation may wish to consider speaking with their healthcare team, including their dermatologist.
They can recommend treatment methods based on symptom severity and provide recommendations for diet and lifestyle changes that may help lower inflammation and reduce psoriasis symptoms. They may also suggest taking vitamins or supplements.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/alzheimers-blood-test-detect-early-signs-protein-buildup-in-brain
Blood test may detect early signs of Alzheimer's in the brain, study suggests
Alzheimer’s disease is a clinical diagnosis, and there is, as of yet, no single, simple diagnostic test.
The diagnostic tests that exist can be invasive, expensive, and time-consuming.
Developing a simple, early diagnostic test could help to target the use of new Alzheimer’s drugs to people in the early stages of the condition.
An international team has found a blood test that detects a particular form of tau is effective at detecting changes in amyloid and tau in the brain.
A blood test that screens for Alzheimer’s disease shows promise in detecting changes in amyloid beta and tau protein levels in the brain years before symptoms emerge, according to a new study published in JAMA Neurology.
Despite Alzheimer’s disease affecting more than 55 million people worldwide, there is still no reliable and simple way to diagnose the condition.
This has led to a situation in the United States where less than half of people with dementia have been diagnosed by a physician, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Doctors normally make a diagnosis by taking a history of symptoms and excluding the possibility of other types of dementia, such as vascular dementia, using scans, or cerebrospinal fluid tests. These are all time-consuming, expensive, and potentially invasive.
Lack of accuracy in testing means detecting the disease in its early stages is difficult. A result of this is that the few treatment options that are available for Alzheimer’s disease can’t be started early when they might be the most effective, and it is also hard to design trials to determine if certain drugs would be effective if started in the early stages of the disease.
Why early detection of Alzheimer’s disease is crucial
In 2023, controversy reigned over the FDA’s decision to approve aducanumab and lecanemab, due to a lack of evidence for their efficacy. One of the limitations of the trials of these drugs had been the inability to start their use earlier in the progression of the disease, potentially affecting results, it was argued at the time.
Early diagnosis could reduce healthcare costs overall as, even if it were not possible to treat Alzheimer’s disease, it would help to manage other chronic conditions and reduce hospitalizations better. The CDC estimates up to $64,000 could be saved per person with dementia, with early diagnosis.
Dr. David Hunter, an assistant professor of neurology with McGovern Medical School at UTHealth Houston, told Medical News Today in an email that more tools to detect Alzheimer’s disease would be welcomed:
“As Alzheimer’s specialists, we very much want a blood test that confirms the diagnosis. This has become urgent in the last year, as there is now an FDA-approved drug for Alzheimer’s that we call a Disease Modifying Therapy (DMT). At the moment, we rely on either a PET scan or a Lumbar Puncture. Both are expensive and somewhat invasive tests.”
Can an Alzheimer’s blood test help early diagnosis?
The hunt has been on for a simple blood test or saliva test that could determine whether or not somebody has the characteristic buildup of amyloid beta and tau in the brain. One of the challenges posed by developing a blood test is that the blood-brain barrier limits the amount of substances present in the brain from reaching the bloodstream. Plus, tau and amyloid proteins are, by their nature, sticky.
There has been significant research into determining the form of tau found in the blood that is the most likely to indicate raised levels of tau and amyloid in the brain, and not elsewhere in the body. Previous research has looked at the ratio of certain forms of amyloid beta compared to other forms, and p-tau217 has also emerged as a form of tau that is indicative of the development of amyloid and tau buildup in the brain.
In 2023, a blood test for detecting amyloid beta protein was developed and made available by a company called AD-Detect. They also created the ALZpath pTau217 assay, which is only available to researchers but allows them to detect this form of tau in a blood test.
This was made available, free of charge, to an international group of researchers based across Scandinavia, Europe, and the United States to determine how this assay compared to using cerebrospinal fluid to biomarkers used to detect Alzheimer’s disease.
Detecting amyloid beta, tau proteins in the brain
Researchers looked at data from three sources — a cohort of individuals at risk of Alzheimer’s disease — and the other two were biobanks set up to investigate neurodegenerative conditions or aging and dementia. There were a total of 786 participants with a mean age of 66, including 504 female and 282 male participants.
Analysis of data showed that the assay was able to identify individuals in which there were abnormal levels of amyloid beta and tau but did not look at whether or not this correlated with the incidence of Alzheimer’s disease. Researchers tested the assay in conjunction with imaging data.
They found that the assay provided more accurate detection of hippocampal atrophy and was similar in its ability to detect abnormal levels of amyloid beta and tau as cerebrospinal fluid tests. This was the case across the three groups.
The authors said that the assay could detect abnormal levels of amyloid beta and tau in 80% of tested participants and that the remaining 20% would need confirmatory imaging or cerebrospinal fluid tests. They claimed this was more accurate than current diagnostic tools and could be used to identify people for early intervention with emerging pharmaceutical treatments designed to reduce amyloid buildup.
The makers of the assay reviewed the manuscript before it was submitted to the journal.
Clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer’s remains challenging
Dr. Clifford Segil, a neurologist at Providence Saint John’s Health Center in Santa Monica, CA, who was not involved in the research, told MNT that a blood test was not necessarily the answer for early detection. Dr. Segil said: “The authors noted there is no clear relationship to serum tau protein levels and cognitive complaints and therefore has no clinical utility for a neurologist or any physician to evaluate a patient with memory loss in 2024.”
“I strongly disagree, as a clinical neurologist who diagnoses and treats patients with cognitive complaints and memory loss, that blood biomarkers have any role in the clinical evaluation of patients with memory loss and dementia and would agree these may have a role in pharmaceutical drug trial enrollment as proposed by this paper.
[T]he goal to reduce Alzheimer’s diagnoses on advanced confirmatory tests is a pharmaceutical company goal and not a neurologist’s goal.”
– Dr. Segil
He warned there were risks with the approach proposed:
“If biomarkers are used millions of people will be diagnosed with Alzheimer’s Disease who may have no memory loss or cognitive impairment. A blood test for tau has no place to be used in a primary care physician’s office or a neurologist’s office in the clinical evaluation of patients with memory loss or cognitive impairment being evaluated for Alzheimer’s dementia. It will diagnose patients with Alzheimer’s dementia who are without memory loss and may never have memory loss.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/semen-microbiome-linked-to-male-infertility
Semen microbiome linked to male infertility, study finds
Semen has its own microbiome, and bacterial imbalances may impact sperm count and quality, according to a new study.
The researchers found unusually high levels of the bacteria Lactobacillus iners in males with low sperm motility.
The link between the health of the semen microbiome and gut microbiome remains unclear.
Experts say healthy lifestyle choices that promote a healthy gut could also support the health of the semen microbiome.
Globally, there is a reported decrease in male sperm count or the number of viable sperm within semen.
Some research points toward pollution as a factor contributing to male infertility, but this does not explain why an estimated 30% of semen is considered abnormal.
A new reproductive study of semen examined the impact of the health of the semen microbiome on sperm motility, which is the sperm’s ability to swim successfully through the female reproductive system to reach and potentially fertilize an ovum or egg.
The study finds that high levels of the bacteria Lactobacillus iners (L. iners) are associated with low sperm motility.
This study represents the first time a distinct semen microbiome has been suggested and investigated, and the first in which L. iners has been linked to a lowering of sperm motility.
The study is published in Scientific Reports.
Balance of bacteria in semen microbiome affects sperm health
Along with “sperm helpers,” such as enzymes, fructose, and citric acid, there is a community of bacteria within semen.
In addition to L. iners, the most prominent bacteria found in semen include:
For the study, the semen of 73 males seeking treatment for reproduction issues or vasectomies was analyzed.
The researchers found that 27 males with reproduction issues all exhibited higher amounts of L. iners compared to the 46 males seeking vasectomies who had already successfully reproduced and who had healthy semen.
The males with abnormal semen also had comparatively higher levels of the bacteria Pseudomonas stutzeri and Pseudomonas fluorescens. They had lower levels of Pseudomonas putida than those with normal semen.
How does bacteria impact human infertility?
The study’s first author, Dr. Vadim Osadchiy, an academic urologist specializing in men’s health and infertility, explained how the L. iners bacteria present in males and females may affect infertility:
In females, “this microbe can act as a symbiotic organism, meaning it helps maintain the healthy vaginal microbiome and prevents bad players from taking over,” Dr. Osadchiy said.
However, some studies suggest that, at times, the bacteria may “predispose a person to developing bacterial vaginosis or even sexually transmitted infections,” he added.
Dr. Osadchiy noted the L. iners bacteria may also impact success rates for people undergoing fertility treatments.
“There is some data suggesting worse assisted reproductive technology outcomes when this microbe is found in higher abundance in the vaginal microbiome,” he said.
“This microbe has never really been studied within the context of male factor fertility, or really within the context of men’s health.”
Is there a link between the semen microbiome and gut microbiome?
The relationship, if any, between the lesser-known semen microbiome and the gut microbiome is unclear, but experts have a few theories.
“I think the farther away you get from the reproductive tract, anatomically speaking, the more tenuous the relationship becomes between the semen microbiome and the various other microbiomes in our bodies,” Dr. Osadchiy suggested.
“We know there is an intimate relationship between the urinary and semen microbiome as the reproductive and urinary tract are interconnected [although] the two microbiomes are certainly distinct,” Dr. Osadchiy added.
Dr. Menka Gupta, a functional medicine doctor with NutraNourish, not involved in the study, suggested it may be possible to improve semen microbiome health but prioritizing gut health.
“I can potentially see a connection between the gut and the semen microbiome through lifestyle factors such as diet, level of stress, [and] exposure to toxins,” Dr. Gupta said.
Dr. Osadchiy noted it may be possible that a gut microbiome with inflammation could “result in conditions that favor a pro-inflammatory semen microbiome.”
“I’m not sure if there is too much definitive data on this yet, but that would be my hunch,” he said.
More research on the semen microbiome needed
Dr. Gupta said further exploration of the role of the semen microbiome in fertility outcomes is needed, which could lead to “new treatments to improve sperm parameters and male fertility.”
Dr. Osadchiy agreed, noting there’s still much to learn about the body’s microbiomes in general, specifically the semen microbiome.
“We know that microbial community interactions can be just as important as the actions of individual players, so work to understand microbial communities in semen would help contextualize our findings. There are still so many questions related to the semen microbiome. More exploratory work but larger sample sizes and greater geographic diversity may help us better characterize what is expected variability since it’s likely there isn’t just one ‘good’ semen microbiome and not just one ‘bad’ microbiome.”
— Dr. Vadim Osadchiy, first study author
Dr. Osadchiy said a deeper understanding of the relationship between the semen microbiome and infertility is also needed, and researchers currently lack “a good sense of what sort of factors are under our control to positively (or negatively) impact the semen microbiome.”
“I wouldn’t be surprised if what is good for the body in general is also good for the semen microbiome,” Dr. Osadchiy added.
Despite the lack of understanding of the relationship between the semen and gut microbiome, both Dr. Osadchiy and Dr. Gupta recommended prioritizing healthy lifestyle choices to improve sperm quality and motility. These include:
Dr. Gupta also noted the value of abstaining from alcohol and smoking and following a diet rich in antioxidants and probiotic foods.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/migraine-increased-risk-of-ibd-inflammatory-bowel-disease-study
Migraine linked to increased risk of IBD in new study
More than 1 billion people around the world have at least one migraine attack each year.
Previous research shows that migraine can potentially increase a person’s risk for several health issues, including gastrointestinal conditions.
New research from Seoul National University College of Medicine in South Korea says there may also be a link between migraine and an increased risk for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
More than 1 billion people globally have at least one migraine attack each year.
Previous studies show that migraine can potentially increase a person’s risk for other conditions, including stroke, heart disease, epilepsy, sleeping issues, and anxiety and depression.
Migraine has also been linked to some gastrointestinal conditions, including irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).
Now, researchers from Seoul National University College of Medicine in South Korea say there may also be a link between migraine and an increased risk for irritable bowel disease (IBD), which is an umbrella term that includes Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis.
The study was recently published in the journal Scientific Reports.
Migraine and IBD: An unsurprising connection
According to Dr. Brooks D. Cash, professor and chief of the division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition at UTHealth Houston in Texas, who was not involved in this study, the field of gastroenterology has recognized for many years that migraine has been associated with many chronic gastrointestinal syndromes and diseases.
“The data in this report supports previous reports of an association between migraine headaches and IBD,” Dr. Cash told Medical News Today.
Dr. Rudolph Bedford, a board-certified gastroenterologist at Providence Saint John’s Health Center in Santa Monica, CA, who was also not involved in this study, told MNT that the research results were not surprising.
“[With] inflammatory bowel disease we do see some extra-intestinal manifestations including things involving the eye or ocular findings, which may be neurogenic in nature, so it wasn’t surprising,” Dr. Bedford added.
This is not the first study to look at a connection between migraine and IBD.
A study published in March 2021 of people in the United States found a higher prevalence of migraine or severe headaches among adults with IBD than in those without.
Research published in March 2023 reported an increased prevalence of IBD in people with migraine with and without aura.
Could migraine increase risk of inflammatory bowel disease?
For the current study, researchers analyzed data from more than 10 million people through the nationwide healthcare system for South Korean citizens. About 3% of the study population had IBD.
Through the data, scientists found the incidence of IBD was significantly higher in people who had migraine compared to those who did not.
Scientists also reviewed the data through subgroups of Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis incidences. People with migraine in both subgroups had a higher risk of developing either condition when compared to people without migraine.
After a migraine diagnosis, researchers found people were at a higher risk of developing Crohn’s disease, with a significant rise after a 5-year follow-up.
Additionally, within the subgroups, scientists reported that the impact of migraine on the risk of developing ulcerative colitis was more prominent in men than women.
Study results not definitive
Based on these findings, the research team suggests that people with migraine be monitored carefully for the development of IBD.
However, Dr. Cash stated that the data presented do not convincingly support that approach or recommendation.
“The odds ratios that were reported in this study, which can be thought of as the increased odds of an outcome (e.g., developing IBD) with a given exposure (e.g., migraine headaches), were consistently between one to two, which is not far from definitive and can be easily misinterpreted or misrepresented,” he explained.
“The results are, at best, suggestive of an association between migraines and IBD, which we were already aware of based on previous research and deserve to be further evaluated. However, the minimal increase in the odds of developing IBD reported in this study is not sufficient to recommend increased monitoring of patients with migraines for the development of Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis.”
– Dr. Brooks D. Cash
Importance of identifying potential IBD triggers
Dr. Bedford said it is important to identify potential health issues that may trigger IBD, as a doctor may be able to mitigate the symptoms of IBD if they know what may be associated with it.
“Migraines can be very debilitating and you may want to identify those people with migraines,” he continued. “We don’t normally question patients with inflammatory bowel disease whether or not they have migraine headaches, so it probably rates as something that should be done more frequently.”
“These results add to an already relatively robust body of research suggesting that chronic pain syndromes are statistically more common in patients with chronic GI syndromes or diseases,” Dr. Cash said.
“We do not have enough information or proof yet to establish a causal relationship either way. But this data can be used to explain some therapeutic approaches that may benefit both GI and neurologic symptoms in patients with migraines,” he added.
Research next steps
Regarding the next steps for this research, Dr. Cash said that mechanistic data evaluating the possible reasons for these consistent observations of association is needed.
“Right now, all we have are hypotheses,” he continued. “Are there changes in the gut-brain communication pathways or sensory perceptions in the enteric and central nervous systems? Is the gut microbiome involved? Are there psychological and stress-mediated factors at play?”
“Once clinical relationships such as these have been identified, we need to move toward trying to explain why those relationships may exist,” Dr. Cash added. “That, in turn, may lead us to develop more targeted and effective therapies that can address multiple symptoms/syndromes.”
Dr. Bedford suggested researchers look for an association between IBD flares and migraine occurring at the same time. As migraine is associated with serotonin release, he encouraged researchers to examine how the serotonin transporters within the GI tract, small bowel, and colon might play a role.
“I think just questioning our patients in terms of quality of life issues — is there any way that we can mitigate their migraine headaches, potentially preventing their inflammatory bowel disease flare, or vice versa, is certainly something to look into,” Dr. Bedford said.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/long-covid-fatigue-linked-to-malfunctioning-mitochondria
Long COVID fatigue linked to malfunctioning mitochondria
At least 65 million people globally have long COVID.
The most common symptoms of long COVID include post-exertional malaise, cognitive impairment, brain fog, sleep problems, and fatigue, which can have a severe impact on a person’s life.
Researchers are still unsure why some people develop long COVID and its symptoms while others do not.
Researchers from the Amsterdam University Medical Center have discovered that the fatigue experienced by those with long COVID has a physical cause.
At least 65 million people around the world have long COVID, a condition where they continue to experience COVID-19 symptoms for months after their symptoms originally start.
The most common symptoms of long COVID are fatigue, dizziness, mobility issues, sleep problems, cognitive impairment, and brain fog or inability to concentrate.
These types of lingering symptoms can have a profound impact on a person’s life. A study published in June 2023 found more than half of people with long COVID reported their work, home, social, and private lives were severely impacted by the symptoms, with fatigue being the main problem.
Scientists are still unsure as to why some people develop long COVID and its symptoms while others do not.
Now researchers from the Amsterdam University Medical Center are helping to provide some answers with their new study — recently published in the journal Nature Communications — that found the fatigue experienced by those with long COVID has a physical cause.
Impact of long COVID fatigue on life quality
Prof. Michèle van Vugt, professor of internal medicine at the Amsterdam University Medical Center and co-lead author of this study, told Medical News Today she and her colleagues decided to look for a physical cause of the tiredness experienced by people with long COVID because of the impact it has on their lives.
“Those long COVID patients used to be like you and me totally integrated [into] society with a job, social life, and private life,” Prof. van Vugt explained. “After their COVID infection, for some of them, nothing was left because of their extreme fatigue. And this happened not only in one patient but many more — too many for only [a] psychological cause.”
Past studies report that fatigue is the most common symptom reported by people who have long COVID.
A study published in December 2023 found that people with long COVID self-report persistently continuously low levels of health-related quality of life, as well as a high level of disability and declined levels of physical and mental health.
And research published in April 2023 reported that fatigue caused by long COVID may cause structural changes to the brain.
Lowered mitochondrial function
For this study, Prof. van Vugt and her team recruited 25 people with long COVID and 21 healthy control participants. They were all asked to take a cycling test for approximately 15 minutes, that was designed to push them to maximum exertion.
According to researchers, the cycling test caused a worsening of symptoms in the participants with long COVID, known as post-exertional malaise (PEM), resulting in worsening of fatigue for up to 7 days after.
Scientists examined blood and muscle tissue samples from all participants both one week before the cycling test and one day after.
They found various abnormalities in the muscle tissue of the participants with long COVID, including lowered functioning of the mitochondria of the muscle. Known as the “powerhouse of the cell,” mitochondria are responsible for making the energy needed to power the body’s cells.
“So, the cause of the fatigue is really biological,” Prof. van Vugt explained. “The brain needs energy to think. Muscles need energy to move. This discovery means we can now start to research an appropriate treatment for those with long COVID.”
Tailored exercises: Good or bad for long COVID?
Prof. van Vugt said the the research team was surprised by their study’s findings related to muscle tissue abnormalities.
“However, we [could then] understand much better the symptoms of fatigue in the patients,” she added.
When asked about the next steps planned for this research, Prof. van Vugt said they plan to examine whether the same muscle alterations can be found in other post-infectious patients to hopefully uncover the cause of these changes in the muscle, leading to proof of concept studies for treatment.
“Doctors should acknowledge the complaints of long COVID patients and we should advise very carefully about performing tailored exercises. And as researchers, we should support our medical colleagues with our gained knowledge to support patients with their symptoms and in the meantime [try] to discover a biomarker as a diagnostic tool plus finally a treatment.”
– Prof. Michèle van Vugt
A condition that is challenging to treat
MNT also spoke with Dr. David Cutler, a board-certified family medicine physician at Providence Saint John’s Health Center in Santa Monica, CA, about this study. Dr. Cutler was not involved in the research.
Dr. Cutler commented that the topic of long COVID sparks controversy and strong emotions because it remains poorly defined, difficult to diagnose, and challenging to treat.
“Despite scientific consensus about its existence, the lack of a definitive diagnostic test and its variable presentation continues to make many skeptical of its existence,” he explained. “As a clinician, [I find that] this [research] is helpful in reassuring long COVID sufferers that what they are experiencing is physically real, and not merely psychological.”
“Lacking a specific cure for this condition, the most important treatment physicians can provide is reassurance,” Dr. Cutler continued.
“Patients must be allowed [an] opportunity to present their symptoms to a receptive physician, they must be thoroughly evaluated to exclude other conditions, the diagnosis of long COVID should then be specifically endorsed, patients need to be informed of the generally favorable long-term prognosis, and adequate follow-up provided. This is the basis for optimal reassurance.”
– Dr. David Cutler
Regarding fatigue, Dr. Cutler said a program of graded exercise to avoid worsening symptoms seems to be best.
“However, at this point, the findings of this one study of just 25 patients does not significantly enhance our ability to treat these patients’ complaints of fatigue,” he added. “But it does help to explain their symptoms which aids in reassurance and lessens anxiety. Future research could be aimed at attempts to lessen fatigue with various regimens of exercise, nutritional support, and emotional therapy to ease the suffering of those with long COVID.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/stroke-increase-dementia-risk-3-times-higher-in-first-year
Stroke could increase dementia risk by 80%, new research finds
Each year, about 15 million people around the world have a stroke.
Past studies show having a stroke can increase a person’s risk for certain diseases, such as dementia.
Researchers from McMaster University report having a stroke increases a person’s dementia risk by 80%, even after accounting for other dementia risk factors.
Scientists also found dementia risk was three times higher in the first year after a stroke.
Each year, about 15 million people around the world have a stroke — a condition where a blood vessel leading to the brain is blocked or bursts, causing a lack of oxygen to the brain.
Of that number, researchers estimate about half will live with a permanent or chronic disability, such as paralysis on one side of the body, communication difficulties, memory loss, or problems with gripping or holding items.
Past studies also show that having a stroke can increase a person’s risk for diseases such as vision issues, depression, post-stroke fatigue, trouble swallowing, cancer, and dementia.
Now, new research presented at the American Stroke Association’s International Stroke Conference 2024 reports that having a stroke increased a person’s dementia risk by 80%, even after accounting for other dementia risk factors. The findings have yet to be published in a peer-reviewed journal.
Researchers also found dementia risk was three times higher in the first year after a stroke.
This risk decreased to a 1.5-times increased risk by five years after a stroke and remained elevated 20 years later.
What is the link between stroke and dementia?
During a stroke, the oxygen flow is cut off to the brain. This can result in the death of brain cells, causing dementia. Vascular dementia is a type of dementia caused by reduced blood flow to the brain.
However, past studies show having a stroke can also increase a person’s risk for another type of dementia, known as Alzheimer’s disease, as well as all-cause dementia.
Dr. Raed Joundi is an assistant professor at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, an investigator at the Population Health Research Institute, a joint institute of McMaster University and Hamilton Health Sciences, an adjunct scientist at ICES, and the lead author of this study.
Dr. Joundi told Medical News Today that the researchers decided to further investigate the link between stroke and increased dementia risk because, with an aging population, more people are experiencing stroke, and an increasing number of people are surviving the consequences of stroke.
“Cognitive impairment is very common after stroke and may lead to dementia, which lowers quality of life and decreases life expectancy. It is important to show a direct link between stroke and dementia, and investigate the timing of dementia after stroke, to inform the research, planning, and delivery of interventions.”
– Dr. Joundi
Increased dementia risk among people who had a stroke
For this study, Dr. Joundi and his team analyzed data from more than 15 million people in Ontario, Canada through medical databases. About 181,000 people were identified as having either an ischemic stroke (stroke caused by a clot in arteries around the brain) or intracerebral hemorrhage (burst blood vessel in the brain) who survived without dementia for at least 90 days.
The stroke participants were matched to two different control groups — one of people in the general population who had not had a stroke or heart attack, and another group of people who had had a heart attack but not a stroke.
Upon analysis, scientists found dementia risk was 80% higher in people who had a stroke when compared to the control group with no heart attack or stroke. The risk for dementia was almost 80% higher in people who had a stroke when compared to the control group who had a heart attack and no stroke.
“We were able to show that the elevated risk of dementia persisted even after matching to control (comparison) groups with the same age, sex, neighborhood socioeconomic status, and vascular risk factors.
As stroke imposes a direct injury on the brain, which may have an immediate impact but also long-term impacts on brain function, this result is not entirely surprising but important to confirm through this large and robust analysis.”
Dementia risk 3 times higher in first year after stroke
Additionally, the researchers discovered dementia risk was almost three times higher in the first year following a stroke. The risk declined to a 1.5-times increased risk by the five-year mark following a stroke and remained elevated 20 years later.
“We found a three-fold risk of dementia between three and 12 months after stroke,” Dr. Joundi explained. “The first three months after stroke were not included as it is usually too early to make a definitive diagnosis of dementia.”
“The presence of a higher risk of dementia earlier after stroke is not too surprising, since there is a direct brain injury from the stroke which can impact cognition and daily function, and physicians are following up closer with patients in the first year and therefore more likely to make a diagnosis of dementia,” he continued. “The more surprising aspect was that the increased risk of dementia persisted throughout 20 years of follow-up, compared to matched controls, so there are many indirect mechanisms that may be acting long-term to promote a higher risk of dementia after stroke.”
Stroke prevention key to reducing dementia risk
After reviewing this study, Dr. Cheng-Han Chen, a board-certified interventional cardiologist and medical director of the Structural Heart Program at MemorialCare Saddleback Medical Center in Laguna Hills, CA, told MNT that this study demonstrates the elevated risk for stroke victims to develop dementia, a risk that is markedly high, even higher than the risk of developing another stroke.
“This study highlights the importance of discussing with stroke patients and their family members the increased risk of developing dementia. These patients will need to be monitored carefully for evidence of cognitive decline, and medication and lifestyle modifications should be initiated to reduce their risk.”
– Dr. Chen
MNT also discussed the study with Dr. José Morales, a vascular neurologist and neuro-interventional surgeon at Pacific Neuroscience Institute in Santa Monica, CA.
Dr. Morales said he was surprised by how much higher a dementia risk was found in the study compared to prior studies.
“It really provides added emphasis on the idea of doing everything we can to prevent stroke, by either primary prevention through lifestyle changes or secondary prevention with medical management to optimize their vascular risk factors,” he added.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/rsv-prevention-infants-young-children
How to prevent RSV in infants and young children, according to experts
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a common virus that may cause severe symptoms in infants, young children, and even older adults.
RSV is the most common cause of infant hospitalizations in high-income countries.
In 2019, about 1.4 million infants ages 0–6 months globally were hospitalized for episodes of RSV-associated acute lower respiratory infection.
RSV infection can become serious, but there are ways to protect infants and young children from severe illness.
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) commonly presents with cold-like symptoms, such as a runny nose and cough.
However, in infants and young children, RSV can be much more severe, leading to hospitalizations and even death. RSV may also cause severe illness among older adults.
In 2019, about 6.6 million infants ages 0-6 months globally had RSV-associated acute lower respiratory infection episodes, with 1.4 million needing to be hospitalized and 45,700 RSV-attributable overall deaths.
What can be done to protect infants and small children from severe illness due to RSV? Medical News Today spoke with pediatricians to learn more.
How does RSV affect a baby?
According to Dr. Danelle Fisher, a board certified pediatrician and Chair of Pediatrics at Providence Saint John’s Health Center in Santa Monica, CA, while RSV will cause symptoms of the common cold in older children and adults, it may affect infants and young children differently.
“The younger you are, the more chance you have of this virus causing severe respiratory issues, including wheezing and difficulty breathing,” Dr. Fisher told MNT.
“A lot of times, even the little babies will go apneic, which means they pause or stop breathing for a little while. The younger you are, the more dangerous it can be.”
Dr. Mohamed Zebda, a board certified pediatrician at the UH Health Family Care Center and clinical associate professor at the Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine at the University of Houston, explained to MNT:
“Most children have had RSV at least once by the age of 2. Many children will have mild symptoms. Common symptoms include cough, congestion, runny nose, and fever.”
“Infants who are born prematurely, babies who have a history of congenital heart disease, children who are immunocompromised, children who have a history of chronic lung disease, and infants less than 1 year of age have an elevated risk of complications and hospitalization.
Complications of RSV include bronchiolitis — inflammation and irritation of the small airways that lead to narrowing of the airways — and pneumonia.”
— Dr. Mohamed Zebda, board certified pediatrician
How do babies get RSV?
RSV spreads both through respiratory droplets when a person coughs or sneezes, as well as contaminated surfaces.
“RSV can spread from person to person, just like colds and other respiratory viruses,” Dr. Kris Bryant, a pediatric infectious diseases physician at Norton Children’s in Louisville, Kentucky, and a member of the American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Infectious Diseases explained to MNT.
“The virus can also live on hard surfaces for many hours, and touching a surface contaminated with the virus and then touching the eyes, nose, or mouth is one way infections can occur,” Dr. Bryant continued.
“RSV can also live on hands for 30 minutes or more, so handwashing is important in reducing the spread of this virus.”
“RSV is spread when a baby inhales droplets from an infected person’s cough or sneeze,” added Dr. Moses Olorunnisola, a pediatrician with Hackensack Meridian Children’s Health Medical Group in New Jersey.
“A baby can also contract RSV from direct contact — if an infected person kisses them on the face, for example. Additionally, If a baby touches a toy or surface that is contaminated, and then touches his or her eyes, mouth, or nose, they can contract RSV,” Dr. Olorunnisola continued.
“The problem with this virus is that it spreads very quickly throughout places where children are,” Dr. Fisher said. “If you have multiple children in the family, oftentimes the older kids who go to preschool, daycare, or elementary school will bring it home to their baby siblings and that is a big mode of transmission.”
— Dr. Danelle Fisher, board certified pediatrician
How is RSV treated in babies?
If an infant contracts RSV, Dr. Olorunnisola told MNT the treatment may depend on the symptoms.
“Babies may need IV fluids if they are unable to drink adequately and become dehydrated,” he detailed.
“Saline and nasal suction may also be used if the baby has significant nasal congestion and mucus production. Some babies may need medication to help manage fevers. Some babies also require oxygen and breathing support if they have severe respiratory problems. Overall, the goal is to manage whatever symptoms are present,” Dr. Olorunnisola explained.
“Antibiotics are not helpful for RSV since RSV is a viral infection and not a bacterial infection,” Dr. Zebda said.
“RSV symptoms tend to peak (on) day 3-5 of (the) illness and gradually get better. It is important for parents to seek immediate help for any increased work of breathing,” he added.
How can you reduce a baby’s risk of RSV?
Dr. Zebda said there are several ways to help minimize a baby’s exposure to RSV.
“Good hand hygiene can help reduce the spread of RSV,” he explained. “(Make) sure that surfaces, including toys, are disinfected. It is recommended to cover coughs and sneezes. (Make) sure visitors coming to see the baby are not sick. Outside visitors should avoid holding and kissing the baby,” Dr. Zebda noted.
“To the extent feasible, parents should keep their babies away from people with cold and flu symptoms and avoid crowds during RSV season,” Dr. Bryant added.
“For my families who have children in day care and preschool, during RSV season, which is usually October through April, I often advise that when these children come home from day care or preschool, the families kind of wash them down,” Dr. Fisher said.
“They could even do their bath or at the very least washing hands and face and changing clothes can minimize the spread,” Dr. Fisher continued.
Should you get an RSV vaccine during pregnancy?
In addition to limiting an infant’s exposure after they are born, the maternal RSV vaccine can protect a newborn from severe illness. baby can be protected from RSV.
The maternal RSV vaccine is administered during pregnancy and is currently recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG).
“If you are pregnant, you should definitely consider getting the RSV vaccine to help protect your baby from RSV,” Dr. Olorunnisola said.
“Pregnant individuals at 32 to 36 weeks gestational age during the months of September through January should get the RSV vaccine as their antibodies are passed on to their baby. This will significantly reduce the likelihood that the baby, once born, will get severe disease or be hospitalized from RSV.”
— Dr. Moses Olorunnisola, a pediatrician
“The RSV vaccine helps produce maternal antibodies against RSV, and those maternal antibodies are then passed to the baby and help protect the baby,” Dr. Zebda explained.
“According to the CDC, the RSV vaccine reduces the risk of hospitalization due to RSV by 57%. If you are currently pregnant, it is important to discuss the RSV vaccine with your OB-GYN or current healthcare provider,” Dr. Zebda added.
Other ways to protect infants from RSV
Dr. Bryant said that pregnant people unable to receive the maternal RSV vaccine can immunize the baby after birth.
“Nirsevimab is not a vaccine but rather a monoclonal antibody shot that protects infants against RSV infections that are severe enough to require a healthcare visit or hospitalization,” she explained.
“Most babies born to people who received the RSV vaccine during pregnancy do not need nirsevimab too,” Dr. Bryant noted.
Dr. Fisher added the monoclonal antibody shot is given to infants 8 months or younger during RSV season.
“It floods the baby’s system with antibodies directly against RSV,” Dr. Fisher continued.
So it’s not a vaccine per se — the baby’s immune system doesn’t have to kick up. But it’s really great passive protection that we love to give these babies. It does not prevent RSV from happening, but it does prevent the most serious complications, including ER visits and hospitalizations — that’s what we’re all about,” she concluded.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/black-women-with-high-blood-pressure-before-age-35-have-triple-the-risk-of-a-stroke
Black women with high blood pressure before age 35 have triple the risk of a stroke
New research shows that Black women who develop high blood pressure before the age of 35 may have triple the odds of having a stroke
Black people are more likely to have high blood pressure, owing to a multitude of factors
Experts say it’s important for both doctors and patients to be aware of this elevated risks and screen accordingly – even for younger women
The risk can be managed through lifestyle changes and consultation with a doctor
A new American Heart Association (AHA) preliminary study shows that younger Black women with high blood pressure could have an increased risk of stroke.
The data, which will be presented next week at the AHA’s International Stroke Conference in Phoenix, analyzed 59,000 Black women in the United States between the ages of 24 and 64 who had not had a stroke.
After following up with participants, researchers reported that the women who developed high blood pressure before the age of 35 were more than three times as likely to have a stroke.
The research hasn’t been published yet in a peer-reviewed journal.
Nonetheless, the study’s lead author told Medical News Today that the findings underline the importance of primary prevention and screening for high blood pressure.
Strokes can occur in younger people
Hypertension, or high blood pressure, is more prevalent in Black adults in the United States, so researchers said it wasn’t surprising to find a high incidence in study participants.
Dr. Hugo Aparicio, the lead study author and an associate professor of neurology at Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, told Medical News Today that 10% of study participants younger than 45 and nearly 40% aged 45 to 64 had high blood pressure.
“However, the most concerning finding was that risk of stroke from an early age, such as the second or third decades, appeared to impart the highest risk of a stroke over the period of follow-up,” he explained.
Experts note that since high blood pressure is a major risk factor for stroke, it stands to reason that younger people with hypertension could have a stroke at a relatively young age.
“There is often the misconception that this heightened risk of stroke isn’t really apparent until older age and therefore healthcare providers are often less concerned when high blood pressure is identified in younger people,” said Michelle O’Donoghue, an associate professor at Harvard Medical School and McGillycuddy-Logue Distinguished Chair in Cardiology at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston who was not involved in the research.
“Although the risk of mid-life stroke is relatively low, this study importantly highlights that early onset of hypertension is a very important predictor of this event, and stroke can occur in middle age,” O’Donoghue told Medical News Today.
Why Black women are affected
Aparicio said he and his colleagues attempted to account for various factors, including a participant’s region of the country and socioeconomic status, along with risk factors such as excess body weight, smoking, and diabetes.
Even after accounting for this, the researchers said they still continued to see the elevated risk of stroke with a history of hypertension across age groups.
“Factors such as psychosocial stressors, or experience with racial discrimination, have been correlated with a higher risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke,” Aparicio said. “Hypertensive disorders or onset associated with pregnancy have also been related to stroke, specifically among Black women, who have higher rates of these pregnancy complications.”
O’Donoghue points out that Black men and women are undertreated for high blood pressure and cardiovascular disease for reasons that are likely multi-faceted.
“It can be challenging in many regions to find a primary care doctor for routine health maintenance,” she said. “Challenges with access to medications, challenges with adherence and attending doctors visits are just some of barriers that we don’t spend enough time thinking about in our conversations with patients.”
A genetic factor that also uniquely affects Black people is lipoprotein (a), a type of cholesterol that’s associated with cardiovascular disease and stroke.
“We know that average [lipoprotein (a)] levels may be more than threefold higher in Black persons, yet this under-recognized risk factor is rarely being assessed in clinical practice,” O’Donoghue explained.
Prevention and screening
While there’s a genetic factor to high blood pressure, other aspects can be controlled to lower one’s risk of developing hypertension, along with heart disease and stroke.
This strategy can start with a doctor’s visit, where blood pressure tests and screening can help people get a handle on their overall health.
“Make sure that even mildly elevated blood pressures are tracked and addressed through prevention efforts like changes in diet or exercise, quitting smoking, and developing better sleep habits,” advised Aparicio. “To reduce risk of stroke, also pay attention to managing specific risk factors like excess body weight, abnormal blood cholesterol levels, and elevated blood pressure.”
Aparicio notes that these findings, along with other data related to Black people and hypertension, underlines the importance for both doctors and patients to pay special attention to screening.
“Neither hypertension nor risk of stroke should be perceived as [just] problems of older women,” he said. “We also need healthcare policy changes that emphasize, promote, and fund primary prevention because for Black women having a stroke at middle age, it is often too late.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/t-cells-reprogrammed-to-slow-down-and-reverse-aging
Scientists reprogram T cells to slow down and reverse aging
Scientists are constantly looking for ways to help slow the aging process.
Researchers from Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory have discovered that T cells in the body can be reprogrammed to slow down and even reverse aging.
Using a mouse model, scientists found T cells can be used to fight off another type of cell that contributes to aging.
Even before Ponce de León supposedly found the Fountain of Youth, humans have always been looking for a way to slow the aging process.
As the number of centenarians — those who reach their 100th birthday — continues to rise, research and medical innovations are helping people to live longer, healthier lives. However, there are still plenty of new measures and methods for scientists to explore.
New research from Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in Cold Spring Harbor, NY, that says the body’s T cells — a type of white blood cell — can be reprogrammed to fight aging.
Using a mouse model, scientists found that T cells can be used to fend off another type of cell that increases as a person ages and causes inflammation, rendering the aging immune system less effective over time.
The study was recently published in the journal Nature Aging.
Using CAR T-cell therapy to reverse aging
T cells are a type of white blood cell known as lymphocytes. They are an important part of the immune system, helping the body to find and destroy potentially harmful pathogens such as viruses and bacteria.
T cells are unique in that different T cells are designed to seek and destroy specific pathogens.
For example, a baby’s T cells will be tasked with remembering different viruses they come in contact with for the first time. Then as the baby grows and becomes older, those same T cells can be used to fight off those same viruses throughout their life.
T cells are made within the body’s bone marrow. They then move to the thymus gland to further develop. Once mature, T cells travel to the tissues and organs within the lymphatic system and circulate within the bloodstream.
Over the past few years, researchers have been looking at ways to use T cells to fight certain diseases such as cancer.
This has led to the development of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy — a type of immunotherapy where T cells are taken from a person, altered in the lab, and then infused back into the same person to fight a particular type of cancer.
Scientists have also been researching the use of CAR T-cell therapy in the treatment of non-cancer diseases such as autoimmune diseases and viral infections like HIV and hepatitis C.
How do T cells change with age?
Dr. Corina Amor Vegas, assistant professor at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory (CSHL) and lead author of this study, said they focused on T cells as a potential way to fight aging because the immune system is really powerful at eliminating damaged cells in younger individuals.
“Thus, we wondered whether in aging we could redirect and repower the T cells to eliminate the damaged cells that accumulate,” Dr. Amor Vegas told Medical News Today.
Dr. Amor Vegas referred to these damaged cells as “senescent cells.”
“Senescent cells are cells in our body that have accumulated a lot of damage and as a result they have stopped doing their normal jobs and instead become very inflammatory. The accumulation of these cells in tissues is really deleterious because it creates a severe proinflammatory microenvironment that prevents the other cells in the tissue from working properly too.”
— Dr. Corina Amor Vegas, lead study author
Previous studies have examined the use of senescent cells as a therapeutic target for aging and age-related diseases.
Eliminating damaged cells led to healthier aging
For this study, Dr. Amor Vegas and her team found they could use CAR T-cell therapy to eliminate damaged or senescent cells in mice.
Scientists found the mice treated with CAR T-cell therapy to remove senescent cells became healthier with lower body weight, improved metabolism and glucose tolerance, and increased physical activity.
“We were very excited to see that the CAR T cells were able to eliminate the senescent cells and drive these effects,” Dr. Amor Vegas said. “We were also really excited about the long-term durability of these effects.”
“Interestingly, in our work, we saw not only therapeutic effects when we treated aged animals but we also saw preventive effects,” she continued. “Thus, when we treated young animals — once, only in their youth — and we let them age, they aged better.”
When asked about future plans for this research, D. Amor Vegas said they are interested in the potential implications for the treatment of age-related diseases in humans.
“Nonetheless it’s a long road and there is still a lot more research that needs to be done to optimize the approach,” she added.
Implications for healthy aging in humans
MNT also spoke with Dr. Yi Zhang, director member of the Center for Discovery and Innovation (CDI), professor at Hackensack Meridian School of Medicine at Hackensack Meridian Health in New Jersey, and co-leader of the Cancer-Host-Interaction Program at the Georgetown Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center in Washington, DC, about this study.
Dr. Zhang said that healthy aging will need wise, optimistic, and effective strategies to deal with population aging.
Currently, Dr. Zhang added, how tissues undergo senescence and how senescent cells trigger harmful inflammation remain poorly defined.
“(Dr. Amor Vegas’) study discovers an innovative strategy that can be leveraged to not only address these questions but also to facilitate the elimination of senescent cells,” Dr. Zhang explained.
“In addition, given the fact that CAR T-cell treatment has transformed (the) treatment of cancer in human patients, this study also provides a proof-of-concept that programming T cells with CARs specific to markers associated with senescent cells will find new applications to improving the health of aging humans.”
“Many efforts have been made to develop small molecule drugs to clear senescent cells, namely senolytic therapies. However, these studies are limited by poorly defined molecular pathways that mediate senescence and its associated chronic inflammatory damage to normal tissues during aging.
Future research is needed to address this issue. In addition, it is important to investigate how the study using a mouse system can be translated into a senolytic therapy in humans.”
— Dr. Yi Zhang, director member of the Center for Discovery and Innovation

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/could-statins-help-slow-down-the-development-of-dementia-symptoms
Could statins help slow down the development of dementia symptoms?
Statins are a drug that reduces cholesterol in the bloodstream, and while they were initially designed to prevent heart disease and cardiac events, they are increasingly being used to prevent other conditions linked to cholesterol.
Some researchers believe that the most common forms of dementia may be caused in part by changes to cholesterol metabolism and blood flow to the brain.
A longitudinal cohort study of older adults with dementia in Sweden has shown that statin use is linked to improved cognition over a period of three years, with some statins performing better than others.
Every year there are 10 million new dementia cases, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), but few treatment or prevention options available.
The most common form of dementia is Alzheimer’s disease, which is characterized by a build-up of betamyloid plaques and tau peptide tangles in the brain.
The second most common cause of dementia is vascular dementia, which is caused when blood vessels in the brain get blocked, reducing blood flow to the region.
It can occur after a stroke, but individuals do not have to have a stroke to have vascular dementia. It is also possible that Alzheimer’s disease and vascular dementia can co-occur.
What is cholesterol’s role in dementia?
High cholesterol is linked to both Alzheimer’s disease and vascular dementia, particularly in men. Researchers hypothesize that cholesterol dysregulation prevents the normal breakdown of cholesterol in the body, leading to levels of low density lipoprotein cholesterol rising to levels that can cause various problems.
This could lead to atherosclerosis, which can increase the risk of vascular dementia, and it could also dysregulate the take up of the tau protein, which could accelerate its accumulation in the brain, a characteristic of Alzheimer’s disease.
That is also why statins could help decrease dementia risk in some cases. Statins are a drug that has been used for decades to reduce cholesterol levels in the blood, primarily with the aim of reducing heart disease and resulting cardiac events.
Dr. Clifford Segil, a neurologist at Providence Saint John’s Health Center in Santa Monica, CA, told Medical News Today:
“In patients with memory loss one of the most common types of dementia is vascular dementia or multi-infarct dementia and any medication which lowers cardiovascular and cerebrovascular risk factors like a statin, would lower patient’s chances of getting this type of dementia.”
Do statins help fight dementia symptoms?
Researchers from Karolinska University Hospital in Stockholm, Sweden, have recently looked at the Swedish Registry for Cognitive/Dementia Disorders (SveDem) to determine if statin use had an impact on cognition in older adults.
The results of their study are reported in a paper published in the journal Alzheimer’s Research and Therapy.
They investigated the records of 15,586 individuals with different forms of dementia, with an average age of 79.5 years at diagnosis, 10,869 of whom took statins. Data were collected from 2007, and all patients were followed until death, emigration or end of follow-up.
Dr. Sara Garcia-Ptacek, assistant professor and neurologist at the Cognitive Clinic, Karolinska University Hospital, lead researcher and lead author of the study, told MNT that “[t]he potential neuroprotective effects of statins have been discussed for a long time.“
“There were some clinical studies which were negative and some observational studies showing an association with dementia prevention and/or progression. SveDem is the world’s largest clinical dementia cohort and the indication and types of patients receiving statins have changed over time,“ she added. “We wanted to check what the association was between statin use and cognition in patients with Alzheimer’s in the SveDem cohort.”
Researchers for the SveDem used a mini-mental state examination (MMSE) to evaluate cognition and this data was recorded. Researchers for this paper analysed the scores recorded at baseline and follow-ups. Data from the cohort was disaggregated into the different types of statin taken by participants. Findings were adjusted for demographic characteristics, comorbidities and medications other than statins.
The researchers found that overall, statin users who took one defined daily dose of statins on average had a 0.63 more MMSE points after 3 years of follow-up compared to those who did not use statins.
Simvastatin, which was the most prescribed statin in Sweden at the time, was associated with 1.01 more MMSE points after 3 years compared to atorvastatin users. Patients under 79.5 years when diagnosed who took simvastatin had 0.80 more MMSE points compared to younger atorvastatin users after 3 years. Simvastatin users had 1.03 more MMSE points compared to rosuvastatin users after 3 years.
Statins are safe to take in dementia
The study confirmed that, despite previous concerns that statins could cause confusion, that they are in fact safe in this group of older patients with dementia, and do not contribute to cognitive decline, said Dr. Segil.
Dr Garcia-Ptacek said: “Our current hypothesis is that these two things may be simultaneously true: acute changes when starting statins — for example, in brain cholesterol — could potentially cause confusion in sensitive individuals while the long-term effects could be protective. However, this is just an hypothesis which will need to be confirmed in future studies”
Further research needed to be done to determine the mechanism that could underlie these findings, she explained, adding:
“We need to examine how statins affect cholesterol, brain cholesterol and brain connectivity, and how the effects change with short or long-term treatment. We need to understand which patients potentially benefit from statins, if at all, in order to design a targeted clinical trial. We need to know how different genotypes (e.g. ApoE) modify this response. ApoE is a cholesterol transporter and the genetic [risk of Alzheimer’s the] allele ApoE4 confers [is higher].”
Dr. Segil, who was not involved in this research, said he wanted to see more data comparing the different types of statin: “This study investigated three different generic cholesterol-lowering medications, or ‘statins,’ which include rosuvastatin, simvastatin, and atorvastatin. I am intrigued to see long term follow-up in the patients who received these three medications to see if data supports neurologists like me using one of these over another [drug], due to data indicating one statin helps prevent memory loss more than another.“
“As a family of medications, statins often are not [well] tolerated, and rosuvastatin in clinical practice is better tolerated than atorvastatin, and I would be interested in seeing if rosuvastatin helped patients with memory loss in a follow-up study head to head with atorvastatin,” he pointed out.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/some-dementia-cases-caused-by-liver-disease
Some dementia cases may be caused by liver disease, study finds
There is currently no cure for cirrhosis of the liver and the disease can increase the risk for complications.
A new study reports around 10% of older U.S. veterans diagnosed with dementia have misdiagnosed hepatic encephalopathy, a complication of liver disease.
Cognitive decline due to hepatic encephalopathy is treatable and
potentially reversible.
Scientists believe their findings highlight the importance of screening patients with cognitive impairment for liver disease.
As of 2017, about 112 million people around the world have the progressive liver disease cirrhosis.
Researchers estimate that liver diseases including cirrhosis account for 4% of all deaths globally.
There is currently no cure for cirrhosis. As the disease progresses, it can increase a person’s risk for certain complications including:
Now researchers from Virginia Commonwealth University report that as many as 10% of older U.S. veterans diagnosed with dementia instead have misdiagnosed hepatic encephalopathy, which is treatable and potentially reversible.
Scientists believe their findings — recently published in the journal JAMA Network Open — highlight the importance of screening patients with cognitive impairment for liver disease.
How liver disease impacts cognitive function
According to Dr. Jasmohan S. Bajaj, professor in the Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition in the Department of Medicine at Virginia Commonwealth University and Richmond VA Medical Center, and lead author of this study, people with cirrhosis often have a condition called hepatic encephalopathy which can impact almost 60% of those tested.
“This can cause subclinical and overt symptoms such as mental slowing, tremors, confusion, and even coma,” Dr. Bajaj explained to Medical News Today. “This is partly because of the liver’s inability to clear the gut-derived toxins and also through inflammation that ultimately results in brain dysfunction.”
Dr. Bajaj said they decided to focus specifically on the veteran population because there can be confusion between hepatic encephalopathy, dementia, or both in this population.
“To support this hypothesis, we have several lines of evidence that prompted this study,” Dr. Bajaj continued.
“One, older patients with already diagnosed cirrhosis are more likely to develop a ‘dementia-like’ state. Two, brain dysfunction due to dementia and that related to cirrhosis often overlap and synergize to worsen (the) quality of life in affected patients. Three, gut-brain axis changes in people over 65 years old point towards a role of microbial changes regardless of cirrhosis. And four, we have found that a couple of patients that were deemed to be dementia actually had hepatic encephalopathy. Treatment of hepatic encephalopathy improved their mental function.”
— Dr. Jasmohan S. Bajaj, lead study author
10% of veterans with dementia may have cirrhosis
For this study, Dr. Bajaj and his team analyzed medical records data of more than 177,000 U.S. veterans diagnosed with dementia but not cirrhosis between 2009 and 2019.
Researchers focused on the Fibrosis-4 (FIB-4) score of the study participants. FIB-4 is a tool used by doctors to assess a person’s liver disease risk using a person’s age and three specific biomarkers:
Depending on a person’s score they may be considered at a low, intermediate, or high risk for advanced liver fibrosis, which can lead to cirrhosis.
Researchers found that 10.3% of the veterans with dementia had high FIB-4 scores, meaning they were very likely to have cirrhosis.
“This unexpected link between dementia and liver health emphasizes the importance of screening patients for potentially treatable contributors to cognitive decline,” Dr. Bajaj says.
Screening for liver disease in older adults
Dr. Bajaj said these findings highlight the importance of screening people for reversible cognitive decline caused by cirrhosis.
“If 10% have cirrhosis and even 50% of those have a component of treatable hepatic encephalopathy, this is still a large group of patients that could gain some of their mental acuities with easy therapy,” Dr. Bajaj explained.
“In addition, patients with cirrhosis are also at higher risk for other complications such as liver cancer, which can be screened for and treated but only if cirrhosis is suspected,” he continued.
The study also reported on a disparity in the amount of potentially undiagnosed cirrhosis in veterans with dementia living in urban areas, who were of Hispanic descent, and who were not white.
“This underlines another focus of where we should all be doing better to improve disparities and also educate patients, family members, and clinicians about the risk of cirrhosis and dementia sooner,” Dr. Bajaj said.
“We plan to try and replicate this in a non-veteran population as well as determining biomarkers for diagnosis of whether the subject with mental dysfunction has dementia, cirrhosis-related problems, or both,” he added.
Treating cognitive decline caused by liver disease
After reviewing this study, Dr. David Frank, a neurologist at Hackensack Meridian Neuroscience Institute at Jersey Shore University Medical Center in New Jersey, told MNT that this study brings to attention a potentially clinically useful screening tool for a subset of these patients.
“Although we are beginning to see more useful medications for the treatment of Alzheimer’s dementia, the primary focus in initial evaluation remains the identification of potentially reversible/treatable underlying causes, and an algorithm that may identify more of such patients is certainly welcome,” Dr. Frank said.
MNT also spoke with Dr. Anurag Maheshwari, gastroenterologist and hepatologist at The Center for Liver and Hepatobiliary Diseases, part of The Melissa L. Posner Institute for Digestive Health & Liver Disease, at Mercy Medical Center in Baltimore, MD, about this study.
Dr. Maheshwari commented that the study highlights an important concept, which is that providers who are diagnosing patients with dementia need to be aware that hepatic encephalopathy can mimic dementia.
“It’s a matter of having better tools and awareness and education … to alert providers about the fact that if patients look like they’re having possible dementia, it may not be dementia — it may be hepatic encephalopathy and that’s something you have to be on the lookout for. The main purpose of the study is to provide better provider education amongst the folks who treat patients with neurocognitive decline but are not dealing with liver disease on a daily basis.”
— Dr. Anurag Maheshwari, gastroenterologist and hepatologist

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/increase-in-annual-cardiorespiratory-fitness-by-3-linked-to-35-lower-prostate-cancer-risk
Higher cardiorespiratory fitness linked to 35% lower risk of prostate cancer
Better cardiorespiratory health may lower the risk of being diagnosed with prostate cancer, according to a new Swedish study.
While many men develop prostate cancer, few die from it, and the study does not make a connection between cardiorespiratory health and prostate cancer deaths.
A connection between cardiorespiratory fitness and prostate diagnosis is most likely due to being in better overall health, say experts.
A new study of Swedish men has found a strong link between cardiorespiratory health and a lower risk of developing prostate cancer.
The study finds that as little as a 3% improvement in cardiorespiratory health can result in a reduction in prostate cancer risk by 35%.
With its focus on the risk of developing the common male cancer, the study does not make any assertions regarding cardiorespiratory fitness and the chances of dying from prostate cancer.
Prostate cancer is very common among men, particularly men aged 65 and older. One in eight men eventually develop the disease, and it is the second leading cause of death in men, behind lung cancer. About one in 44 men will die of prostate cancer.
However, the cancer is often very slow-growing, and most men who receive a prostate cancer diagnosis do not die of the disease.
There is robust debate whether the best course of action upon diagnosis is surgical prostate removal (prostatectomy), radiation therapy, or doing nothing at all apart from keep in an eye on it.
Doctors track the presence of prostate cancer and receive an indication of its severity through blood work, including a prostate antigen test (PSA).
The results of the study appear in the British Journal of Sports Medicine.
Who do the findings apply to?
The study was an analysis of Swedish health records in which 57,652 men reported their physical activity levels, self-described health, lifestyle, and body mass and height measurements.
Each had also participated in at least two cardiorespiratory fitness tests on a stationary bicycle, with their cardiorespiratory fitness measure a V02 max test, which tracks oxygen inhaled and exhaled oxygen at maximum exercise levels.
During a mean followup time of 6.7 years, 46 men died of prostate cancer.
While Sweden’s health system provides excellent data for such studies, one concern is that the group of men studied is largely White Scandinavian men.
Black men — who are at the highest risk of prostate cancer — were not included.
Cardiologist Dr. Jayne Morgan, of GeoVax, who was not involved in this study, mentioned this as a key concern when speaking to Medical News Today. Yet this was not her only concern about the research.
Dr. Morgan noted a lack of information regarding “whether men with higher fitness levels or higher cardiorespiratory fitness also have different health habits with regard to types of food consumed, amounts of sleep obtained, hobbies, level of engagement with the medical establishment, obesity, employment — these men were all employed — and other lifestyle choices that can impact health and even cancer risk.”
Urologist and urologic oncologist Dr. Ramkishen Narayanan, from the Center for Urologic Health at the Disney Family Cancer Center in Burbank, CA, also not involved in the research, did, however, appreciate that the study focused on diagnosis of prostate cancer, and not mortality, since the number of men who die is so low that meaningful analysis is difficult.
“You’re talking about 1% at a mean followup of seven years. So that followup is not terribly long and the numbers are small,” he said.
Why is cardiorespiratory fitness important to prostate cancer risk?
Dr. Narayanan said he suspected a benefit from cardiorespiratory fitness would mostly be due to being healthier in general, mentioning its positive value for avoiding metabolic syndrome.
“Those are modifiable risk factors,” said Dr. Narayanan. “High blood pressure and obesity we know are risk factors that can contribute to different oncologic potential.”
Specifically, said Dr. Morgan, “[g]reater cardiac fitness is generally tied to greater overall fitness which is then tied to decreased abdominal fat, decreased weight, less insulin resistance, i.e. less type 2 diabetes [risk], and improved cholesterol profiles.”
Dr. Morgan explained that “[t]he common thread is chronic systemic inflammation, which is a risk factor for both cancer as well as heart disease.”
“Interestingly,” she noted, “cardiac disease is the leading cause of death in men with prostate cancer.”
Dr. Morgan also pointed out that for men being treated for prostate cancer with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) there is an increase in cardiovascular risk.
What is the takeaway?
Dr. Morgan listed the items she would like to see addressed in a subsequent, more robust study. These are:
Dr. Narayanan suggested essentially turning the study around, an idea also suggested by its authors: “I would look at a population with prostate cancer, and look at biochemical recurrence to observe whether strong [cardiorespiratory fitness] would align with a reduction in biochemical recurrence of the disease.”
After anybody gets treated for prostate cancer, their PSA levels are regularly monitored indefinitely.
“The biggest takeaway that I would have from this is that [promoting] cardiovascular fitness is something actionable and empowering that men can do as opposed to saying, well, it’s family history, it’s your genetic predisposition, and then feeling like they’re not able to take some preventable action.”
– Dr. Ramkishen Narayanan
He also mentioned that some men are fearful of working on cardiorespiratory fitness for fear of raising testosterone levels that they worry may increase their risk of prostate cancer.
“There’s a misconception,” explained Dr. Narayanan, “that increasing testosterone will increase your prostate cancer incidence. That’s really been disproven as a misconception. So that’s something that’s important to know.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/type-2-diabetes-medication-may-help-lower-kidney-stone-risk-30-percent
Type 2 diabetes medication may help lower kidney stone risk by 30%
The number of people experiencing kidney stones is growing worldwide.
This number is expected to grow due to an increase in diseases that can raise a person’s kidney stone risk, such as obesity or type 2 diabetes.
Researchers have found that SGLT2 inhibitors — which are used to treat type 2 diabetes — may help lower a person’s risk of developing kidney stones.
As of 2019, there were more than 115 million cases of kidney stones around the world.
Medically known as nephrolithiasis, kidney stones are mineral deposits that form in the kidneys that are too large to easily pass through the urinary tract.
Previous research shows the prevalence of kidney stones is growing globally due to an increase in diseases such as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, high blood pressure, obesity, and type 2 diabetes, which can raise a person’s kidney stone risk.
Now, researchers from Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Massachusetts General Hospital have found that a type of medication called sodium-glucose contratransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors used to treat type 2 diabetes may help lower a person’s risk of developing kidney stones.
The study was recently published in the journal JAMA Internal Medicine.
What are SGLT2 inhibitors?
SGLT2 inhibitors are a newer class of medications used to help manage blood sugar levels in people with type 2 diabetes.
Taken orally, the medication stops glucose in the blood that is filtered through the kidneys from being reabsorbed by the body. This causes the extra blood sugar to leave the body through urine, lowering blood sugar levels.
Sometimes SGLT2 inhibitors are also prescribed for treating chronic kidney disease and to help reduce the risk of hospitalization for heart failure.
Past studies have linked SGLT2 inhibitor use to weight loss, lower cholesterol, lower blood pressure, and reduced risk for stroke and heart disease.
A new class of medication for kidney stones
Dr. Julie Paik, associate professor of medicine in the Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacoeconomics and the Division of Renal (Kidney) Medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, MA, and corresponding author of this study, said her research group decided to examine SGLT2 inhibitors as a possible way to lower kidney stone risk because they had already been studying this newer class of diabetes medications for several years.
“We became interested in studying the association between the use of this class of drugs and (the) risk of kidney stones based on what we had been seeing clinically with the use of this medication class, our current understanding of the pathophysiology of this drug class, and prior studies, albeit limited,” Dr. Paik told Medical News Today.
“Kidney stones are common, and in addition to being quite painful, they can cause kidney damage and increase the risk of other sequelae, like urinary tract infections, cardiovascular disease, and (bone) fractures,” she continued.
“It’s unclear why rates are on the rise, but some possible factors could be the rising rate of obesity, metabolic syndrome, and diet-related factors,” she said.
25–30% lower kidney stone risk with SGLT2
For this study, Dr. Paik and her team analyzed data from more than 716,000 adults with type 2 diabetes who had started taking either an SGLT2 inhibitor or two other classes of diabetes medications — glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP1 receptor) agonists and dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4) inhibitors.
Upon analysis, scientists found that people who began taking SGLT2 inhibitors had a 31% decreased risk of developing kidney stones compared to those taking GLP1-receptor agonists and a 25% lower risk than people taking DPP4 inhibitors.
Researchers report that the findings were consistent across sex, race/ethnicity, history of chronic kidney disease, and obesity.
“While we found a lower risk of kidney stones in our study, we don’t fully understand how they lower the risk,” Dr. Paik said. “While we provide some potential explanations in our study, it remains to be studied further. We will continue to investigate the role of these newer classes of drugs and health outcomes.”
Larger studies needed
After reviewing this research, Dr. Jennifer Cheng, section chief of endocrinology at Hackensack Meridian Jersey Shore University Medical Center in New Jersey, told MNT that this study is promising in helping doctors decide what medications to recommend to their diabetes patients.
“This can be helpful for patients with type 2 diabetes and renal stones, which can reduce (the) risks of renal stones and prevent hospitalizations,” Dr. Cheng continued. “It is helpful for patients to reduce their risk for nephrolithiasis, as it is a cause of significant pain and discomfort for patients.”
“This could be another good reason to prescribe the SGLT2 class of medications and for patients to inquire about if they have had renal stones in the past,” she added. “Implementing a new way of lowering renal stone risk is always helpful, especially in patients who do not have other options.”
Dr. Cheng said that thorough research can be done using larger studies to determine if there are significant differences between the different SGLT2 class of medications and if there are reproducible studies showing a reduction in renal stones.
“Physicians also often recommend when people are prescribed SGLT2 class medications, that patients drink enough fluids and that may also contribute to the reduction of stones. We would like to see if it is an effect of the medication or the increased fluid intake that occurs.”— Dr. Jennifer Cheng
Tips for lowering kidney stone risk
Dr. Cheng said there are several things that predispose patients to getting kidney stones, including obesity, lack of exercise, dehydration, and eating foods with too much salt and sugar.
“Unfortunately, the obesity epidemic has only increased the risk of patients having renal stones,” she continued.
“Certain food choices, such as too much sugar and too much salt increase the risk of renal stones. It has been found that too much fructose also increases (the) risk of developing kidney stones as well.”— Dr. Jennifer Cheng
“Not drinking enough water also may increase the risk of renal stones. People are so busy sometimes that they don’t always remember to drink enough. The older you are, the less thirst mechanism you have, and therefore you drink less,” Dr. Cheng added.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/ginkgo-biloba-extract-may-speed-up-brain-recovery-stroke
Ginkgo biloba extract may speed up brain recovery within first weeks after stroke
A recent preliminary study highlights a promising development in stroke recovery treatment.
Researchers found that ischemic stroke patients—those experiencing strokes caused by blood clots—demonstrated improvements in cognitive function in the early recovery phase when administered intravenous injections of a ginkgo biloba extract within the first two weeks following their stroke.
This discovery underscores the potential of traditional remedies in modern medical practices and sparks a dialogue on integrating such treatments into stroke recovery protocols
According to a preliminary study, presented at the 2024 International Stroke Conference, individuals experiencing ischemic stroke showed improved cognitive function in the early stages of recovery when treated with intravenous injections containing a mix of active components from ginkgo biloba in the initial two weeks following the stroke.
Extracted from the dried leaves and seeds of the ginkgo tree, which is among the oldest living tree species native to East Asia, ginkgo biloba is a herb celebrated in traditional Chinese medicine and also available as a dietary supplement in the United States.
In China, intravenous (IV) therapies utilizing the active compounds of ginkgo biloba are commonly employed for stroke treatment, attributed to its potential antioxidant properties that could safeguard neurons against damage.
However, the FDA has not sanctioned ginkgo biloba for any medical application, and, as per the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (part of the National Institutes of Health), there is not currently sufficient evidence to approve its use.
Helping stroke patients recover cognitive function
In this new study involving 3,163 individuals who had experienced mild to moderate blockage-related strokes, researchers investigated how their cognitive function recovered post-stroke.
These participants, who were, on average, 63 years old and 36% of whom were women, received treatment across 100 facilities in China.
Within the first 48 hours after their stroke, around half were randomly chosen to get a daily IV shot of 25 mg of a ginkgo biloba-derived mixture known as GDLM for two weeks. The rest were given a placebo shot daily for the same duration.
Researchers evaluated their mental abilities using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), a direct, 30-point test often used for stroke patients, at the start, after two weeks, and then after three months.
Initially, before any treatment and just after their stroke, the average mental capability score of these patients was moderately low, at 17 out of 30.
How ginkgo biloba improves cognitive function
After two weeks, those who had received the ginkgo biloba extract shots showed more improvement in their mental function scores than those who had been given the placebo, with scores increasing by an average of 3.93 points compared to 3.62 points.
By the 90th day, the gap widened further, with the ginkgo biloba group showing a more significant increase in mental function scores, averaging a 5.51 point improvement, versus a 5.04 point increase in the placebo group.
The researchers explained that the group receiving GDLM saw a 20% higher rate of patients achieving a clinically meaningful level of cognitive improvement, suggesting that GDLM injections could enhance cognitive functions in those experiencing acute ischemic stroke.
They noted, however, that the study’s follow-up period was limited to 90 days, implying the necessity for more extended research to understand the long-term impacts of GDLM treatments.
Further elaborating on the benefits, the researchers mentioned that GDLM appears to offer neuroprotection through various mechanisms.
These include widening the brain’s blood vessels, enhancing the brain cells’ ability to withstand low oxygen levels, and boosting cerebral blood flow.
They also highlighted that GDLM possesses antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-apoptotic (preventing cell death) effects.
Do alternative medicines have any risks?
The 2022 American Heart Association Scientific Statement on the use of complementary and alternative medicines in heart failure management highlighted that while there may be benefits, there are also significant risks associated with these treatments, underscoring the importance of involving healthcare professionals in decision-making.
Experts emphasized that the recommendations for the cautious use of supplements in heart failure patients should similarly apply to the treatment of all cardiovascular diseases, including stroke.
They advise against stroke patients using gingko biloba or any supplements without consulting their healthcare providers.
While the research on ginkgo biloba might hold promise for post-stroke care in the future, its effectiveness and safety must be proven through clinical trials to meet the rigorous standards required for FDA approval.
Dr. José Morales, vascular neurologist and neurointerventional surgeon at Pacific Neuroscience Institute in Santa Monica, CA, who was not involved in this research, told Medical News Today that “Gingko biloba has a long history of associated effects on moderately boosting cognitive function.”
“The strength of this study lies in the study design (i.e., double-blind randomized clinical control trial) and in those with a sentinel event (i.e., acute ischemic stroke) that is known to affect cognition long-term,” he said.
“However, the effect size is not disclosed in this abstract, so more information is needed to evaluate the strength of the findings. In addition, the study is not an international trial, so the generalizability of the findings to diverse populations are in question,” he added.
Rachael Miller, a nutritionist, herbalist, and the founder of Zhi Herbals, who was also not involved in the study, told MNT that “it is well known that the terpene lactones in ginkgo are largely responsible for its ability to reduce inflammation and enhance mental acuity and memory.”
Miller pointed to previous research that supports ginkgo’s ability to protect damaged neurons after ischemia.
“This new study is exciting, and it aligns with the results of previous research done regarding ginkgo and ischemic damage.”— Rachel Miller
Should I take over-the-counter gingko biloba?
Dr. Morales points out that “Ginkgo biloba has putative mechanisms of action that protect neurons against beta-amyloid neurotoxicity, hypoxemia, and oxidative stress.”
“The authors should be lauded for completing this trial and demonstrating clinically significant outcomes, which are often elusive even with plausible mechanisms of action. Future research should be conducted at multiple sites internationally with diverse populations to verify and validate these findings, as well as to determine the safest and most effective dose. Conducting international trials would boost credibility and facilitate approval to large clinical populations at need should the results be replicated at that scale.”— Dr. José Morales
Miller notes that “the improvement in MoCa scores is significant and can offer hope to those [experiencing] the lasting results of acute ischemic stroke.”
“It would be difficult for a layperson to replicate the results at home, as the injection method is not accessible to most, and ginkgo supplements usually do not have their lactone content standardized or labelled. The content of ginkgo leaves varies greatly depending on how they are harvested,” Miller explained.
However, it’s important to note that Dr. Morales said, “patients and the public should wait for additional information from this trial and/or subsequent ones before adopting a regimen with over-the-counter gingko biloba supplements, particularly given known ginkgo-related safety issues and drug-drug interactions.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/can-a-daily-dose-of-cinnamon-help-lower-blood-sugar
Can a daily dose of cinnamon help lower blood sugar?
Cinnamon, a spice from the inner bark of trees from the genus Cinnamomum, is widely used in cooking.
It is also taken as a food supplement, with health benefits that may include antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and antidiabetic effects.
Adding to the evidence for potential antidiabetic effects, a new study has found that a 4-week course of cinnamon supplements reduced blood glucose (sugar) levels in people with obesity or overweight and prediabetes.
Cinnamon has been used since around 2800 Before the Common Era (BCE) as a flavoring, an anointing oil and for medicinal purposes. The Romans used it to treat digestive and respiratory ailments, and the ancient Egyptians used it for fragrance and flavoring.
More recently, the health benefits of cinnamon have been widely investigated. Studies suggest that the spice may have antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antidiabetic, antimicrobial and even anticancer effects.
Now, in a double-blind crossover study, researchers have found that cinnamon supplements could help to reduce blood glucose (sugar) levels in people with obesity or overweight and prediabetes.
The findings are published in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition.
Kelsey Costa, a registered dietitian nutritionist and nutrition consultant for Diabetes Strong, not involved in this study, commented on its methods for Medical News Today. She told us:
“While the study’s cohort was chosen to explore the effects of cinnamon on glucose regulation in individuals with prediabetes and obesity, its applicability to a broader demographic requires caution. The small sample size limits the robustness of the conclusions and reflects the need for larger, more representative studies.”
“However,” Costa added, “this research utilizes continuous glucose monitoring (CGM), which adds a novel and more precise dimension to our understanding of cinnamon’s impact on blood sugar levels.”
Can 4 grams of cinnamon daily help manage obesity, prediabetes?
Previous studies into the effect of cinnamon on blood glucose levels have shown inconsistent findings, although a 2023 umbrella meta-analysis did find that cinnamon supplements reduced fasting blood glucose.
The researchers recruited 18 people with overweight or obesity — mean body mass index (BMI) of 31.5 — and prediabetes — a condition where blood glucose levels are consistently high, which can lead to type 2 diabetes — for a 4-week randomized, double-blind crossover trial of cinnamon supplementation.
First, they put the participants on a 2-week, low polyphenol “beige“ diet — a type of diet rich in simple carbohydrates — and told them to avoid any foods containing cinnamon. They then divided the participants randomly into a treatment group and a placebo group.
They gave each group 16 visually identical capsules per day, 8 to be taken with breakfast and 8 with dinner. The treatment group capsules contained a total of 4 grams (g) of cinnamon, while each placebo capsule contained only maltodextrin (250 milligrams), making a total of 4 g maltodextrin daily.
The researchers told the participants to continue their diet, and take the capsules as instructed for 4 weeks.
After 4 weeks, the groups did a 2-week “washout“ phase when they took no capsules, before swapping groups. Neither the participants nor the researchers knew who was receiving cinnamon and who was receiving placebo.
Both Costa and Dr. Menka Gupta, functional medicine doctor at Nutra Nourish, neither of whom were involved in the study, expressed concern about the use of maltodextrin as placebo.
Dr. Gupta commented: “Maltodextrin has been shown to increase blood glucose due to its high glycemic index. This could have potentially accentuated the difference between the cinnamon and placebo groups.”
Costa explained: “Typically, maltodextrin is used in placebo-controlled studies due to its neutral flavor and similarity in appearance to the supplement being tested; however, given that maltodextrin can cause a glycemic response due to the body’s rapid conversion of it to glucose, there could be a concern that its utilization might have confounded the study’s results.”
“To ensure the validity and reliability of the outcomes, future research could benefit from selecting a non-glycemic placebo or transparently accounting for the potential effects of maltodextrin in the study’s analysis and discussion,” she advised.
We reached out to the authors for comment, but they did not respond to our request in time for publication.
Cinnamon shows promise in blood glucose control
The researchers monitored the participants’ blood glucose levels using a continuous glucose monitoring device fixed to the upper arm, which measured glucose levels every 15 minutes.
In addition, at 4 time points in the study — after the 2-week introductory diet, after the first 4-week trial, after washout, and after the second 4-week trial — the participants gave blood samples for an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT).
Researchers took blood samples after participants had fasted for 8–12 hours, then gave them 75 g of glucose cola to drink, plus 8 capsules of cinnamon or placebo. They took further blood samples every 30 minutes for 3 hours.
Continuous glucose monitoring showed that participants taking cinnamon had consistently lower levels of blood glucose, and lower glucose peaks than those on placebo. However, there was no difference in the OGTT between the two groups.
The researchers suggest this is because continuous monitoring is a more sensitive measure of glucose changes.
Why might cinnamon help with blood sugar?
“The significant decrease in blood glucose levels seen with a 4g daily intake of cinnamon could be attributed to its rich polyphenol content and diverse bioactive compounds, which include cinnamaldehyde, proanthocyanidins, catechins, coumarin, trans-cinnamic acid, and various flavonoids. […] These natural compounds boost insulin’s ability to connect with cells, prompting them to take in glucose more effectively. They also reduce harmful inflammation and support the liver in storing excess glucose as glycogen for future energy needs.”
– Kelsey Costa
The researchers also propose that the impact of cinnamon on the gut microbiome — encouraging growth of beneficial bacteria while inhibiting growth of others — may affect blood glucose.
Dr. Gupta agreed.
“Cinnamon could improve gut health: Beneficial bacteria like Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium can enhance gut barrier function, reducing systemic inflammation. Lower inflammation is associated with improved insulin sensitivity,” she explained.
“Beneficial bacteria ferment dietary fibers to produce short-chain fatty acids, such as butyrate, acetate, and propionate, which can improve glucose metabolism by enhancing insulin sensitivity and regulating energy expenditure and storage,” she added.
Expert tips to manage prediabetes
Dr. Gupta advised that cinnamon might have a role to play in managing prediabetes. “Adding cinnamon to the diet can blunt the blood glucose increase and can be beneficial part of a balanced diet for people with prediabetes,” she said.
“However,” she cautioned, “cinnamon contains coumarin, which can be toxic at high levels.”
Costa recommended other evidence-based measures to help control prediabetes: “Embracing diets rich in healthy plant-based foods, engaging in guided intermittent fasting, and practicing intuitive and mindful eating can improve nutrition while enhancing overall metabolic health.”
“Weight loss achieved by combining a healthy, reduced-calorie diet with regular exercise has been shown to be twice as effective as weight loss achieved through diet alone in reversing prediabetic states. Moreover, reducing abdominal fat is essential due to its strong association with insulin resistance,” added Costa.
Both advised that you should always consult a health professional before taking supplements or making lifestyle changes.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/both-too-much-and-too-little-sleep-associated-with-signs-of-dementia-stroke
Both too much and too little sleep associated with signs of dementia, stroke
Sleeping for more or less than the optimal duration of 7 to 9 hours is associated with an increased risk of dementia and stroke.
Brain imaging biomarkers that measure structural changes in the brain using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans can predict the onset of stroke or dementia years before they occur.
A new study shows that suboptimal sleep duration is associated with an increased presence of brain biomarkers of dementia and stroke in healthy middle-aged individuals.
This study further underscores the role of suboptimal sleep duration in brain health and the need to improve sleep hygiene.
Experts recommend that adults get between 7 and 9 hours of sleep each night. Indeed, studies have shown that sleeping 7 to 8 hours a night is favorably associated with health while shorter or longer sleep durations are linked with adverse health outcomes. Suboptimal sleep duration is also a risk factor for stroke and dementia.
A new study published in the Journal of the American Heart Association now shows that healthy individuals aged 40 to 69 years sleeping more or less than the optimal duration were more likely to show elevated expression of brain biomarkers of stroke and dementia.
Study author Dr. Santiago Clocchiatti-Tuozzo, a postdoctoral fellow at the Yale School of Medicine, noted that these results further support the role of sleep in long-term health.
Dr. Clocchiatti-Tuozzo explained to Medical News Today that, “[b]ecause these magnetic resonance imaging markers of poor brain health are known to precede the occurrence of stroke and dementia by many years, there may be merit in assessing and managing abnormal sleep duration among asymptomatic middle‐aged adults.”
“Both short and long sleep durations may potentially be modifiable risk factors for magnetic resonance imaging markers of poor brain health,” added Dr. Clocchiatti-Tuozzo.
How does sleep duration affect health?
Studies have consistently shown that insufficient or excessive sleep is linked to an increased risk of conditions such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, high blood pressure, and depression.
The link between suboptimal sleep with metabolic and cardiovascular diseases has led the American Heart Association to include sleep among the eight key components that constitute Life’s Essential 8.
Life’s Essential 8 consists of measurable components such as sleep, diet, and physical exercise that influence the risk of cardiovascular disease.
Studies have shown that suboptimal sleep duration is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular conditions like stroke and coronary artery disease.
Similarly, shorter sleep duration in midlife is also associated with an increased risk of cognitive decline and dementia later in life.
Dr. José Morales, a vascular neurologist and neurointerventional surgeon at Pacific Neuroscience Institute in Santa Monica, CA, noted that studies conducted so far have not shown a link between sleep duration and brain health.
Dr. Morales, who was not involved in the current study, explained:
“Long sleep duration has in the past been associated with increased risk of mortality and morbidity. However, these historical findings did not explicitly implicate compromised brain health.”
In the present study, the researchers examined whether suboptimal sleep duration was associated with brain health in healthy individuals without stroke or dementia aged over 40.
How are stroke and dementia related?
Stroke and dementia are preceded by structural changes in the brain’s white matter, which is made up of nerve fibers or axons that transmit information between nerve cells.
These changes in the structure of white matter include white matter hyperintensities and fractional anisotropy, which can be detected using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
White matter hyperintensities appear as bright white spots during MRI scans. White matter hyperintensities are more frequent with increasing age and are often caused by damage to the white matter owing to the disease of small blood vessels in the brain.
Fractional anisotropy is a measure of white matter integrity. Decreased white matter integrity and white matter hyperintensities are observed several years before a stroke or onset of dementia, thus serving as biomarkers for these conditions.
Suboptimal sleep linked to marker of dementia, stroke
The present study consisted of 39,771 individuals enrolled in the UK Biobank study between 2006 and 2010. The UK Biobank is a long-term population-based study designed to understand the role of genetic and environmental factors in disease development.
These participants were aged 40 to 69 at the time of enrollment (baseline) in the UK Biobank study. The researchers used MRI to scan the participants’ brains for changes in white matter at an average of 9 years after enrollment.
The researchers used self-reported sleep duration data collected at the time of enrollment and at the end of the follow-up period, that is, during the brain scans. Sleep duration was calculated by averaging the total time spent sleeping daily, including time spent napping during the daytime.
Individuals sleeping between seven and less than nine hours daily were categorized as sleeping for the optimal duration. Participants receiving less than 7 hours or in excess of 9 hours of sleep were classified as sleeping for an inadequate or excessive duration, respectively.
Individuals with stroke or dementia were excluded from the study due to the brain damage associated with these conditions.
Based on the sleep duration interviews conducted at the time of enrollment, the researchers found that the participants who slept less or more than the optimal duration were more likely to show greater signs of damage to white matter than those sleeping for an optimal duration.
Specifically, suboptimal sleep duration was associated with a larger volume of white matter hyperintensities (lesions) and a greater decline in white matter integrity.
Similar results were obtained in a follow-up analysis when the sleep duration at the time of the brain scans was used to assess the association between sleep and white matter damage.
In addition, the association between sleep duration and white matter damage was also observed after adjusting the analysis for several variables, including age, sex, body mass index, and cardiovascular risk factors, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, and smoking.
The study thus shows that suboptimal sleep duration could potentially have an adverse impact on brain health. However, whether this link is causal needs to be established.
Dr. Clocchiatti-Tuozzo noted that “[b]etter understanding of the directionality and mechanisms of the association between suboptimal sleep and poor brain health is needed, as well as clinical trials aimed at unveiling whether early interventions on sleep duration during middle age can potentially benefit brain health later in life.”
More data needed going forward
The large number of participants included in this brain imaging study was a major strength of the study. Such a large sample size is generally uncommon for imaging studies.
Dr. Balaji Krishnaiah, Neurology Medical Director at Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare in Memphis, TN, not involved in the current study, commented that:
“The study is one of the largest population health studies globally, with nearly 40,000 middle-aged participants from the UK Biobank, adding robustness to the findings. The prospective nature of the study, assessing sleep duration approximately 9 years before neuroimaging, provides temporal depth to the results.”
Nevertheless, one of the study’s major limitations was its observational design. Dr. Clocchiatti-Tuozzo said that: “Due to the observational nature of our study, we are precluded from making causal inferences between sleep duration and poor brain health. In addition, the directionality of such a causal relationship remains indeterminate.”
“The generalizability of our results is limited by the characteristics of the UK Biobank study, which is being conducted in a single European country and may be prone to healthy volunteer bias, where individuals who are willing and able to participate in a study tend to be healthier than the source population,” he added.
Dr. Morales also noted: “It is a retrospective study using self-reported sleep durations, and the latter may not be reliable data inputs. Future research should incorporate objective measures of sleep duration (rather than self-reported) — and more importantly sleep quality — for correlation with these imaging biomarkers.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/exercise-only-reduces-cognitive-decline-risk-slightly-why-thats-still-important
Exercise only reduces cognitive decline risk slightly: Why that's still important
Physical activity might not play as prominent a role in reducing the risk or preventing cognitive decline as previously thought, according to a new study.
Even though the researchers reported that physical activity had a weak association with lowering the risk of cognitive decline, they said even a slight reduction can be helpful.
The researchers note that the studies included in the meta-analysis have shortcomings but do not believe the low quality of the studies significantly altered the results.
Physical activity is associated with a lower the risk of cognitive decline.
However, according to a meta-analysis published in the journal JAMA Network Open, the effect might not be as strong as previously thought.
The study examined whether physical activity is associated with cognitive decline and whether there is a dose-response association between physical activity and cognition.
The scientists concluded that physical activity might postpone cognitive decline, but only to a small extent.
The weaker association remained, even when looking at the preceding levels of cognition or age of the participant.
Details from the study on exercise and cognitive decline
Researchers looked at 104 studies with a total of 341,741 participants.
The study’s analysis of binary outcomes included 45 studies with a total of 102,452 participants.
When looking specifically at follow-up global cognition, they reviewed data from 14 studies that included 41,045 participants. When evaluating changes in global cognition, they included 25 studies with 67,643 individuals.
Evaluating global cognition looks at many cognitive domains, such as attention, memory, verbal fluency, language, and visuospatial ability.
The researchers found that:
The researchers noted that the studies they reviewed were often not highly evaluated.
For example, among the 25 studies that assessed a change in global cognition, there were five moderate-quality studies and 20 low-quality studies.
“I agree with the study’s methodologies and findings. However, there were no findings about cognition in mid-life, only late life,” said Ryan Glatt, CPT, a senior brain health coach and director of the FitBrain Program at Pacific Neuroscience Institute in California who was not involved in the research.
“However, the cognitive outcome measures seemed to be limited, and practice effects were not considered when evaluating the cognitive measures,” he told Medical News Today. “Many of the studies analyzed were not high quality, which may affect the findings.”
Why a weak association is still important
Although the researchers found that physical activity had a weak association with lowering the risk of cognitive decline, they believed that even a weak association is important.
“This systematic review and meta-analysis seem to reinforce the belief that exercise plays a role in slowing cognitive decline. One interesting question this study seems to answer is ‘how much,’ and it is interesting to read the conclusion of ‘only to a very small extent,'” Glatt said. “This [conclusion] challenges prior biases about how much physical activity can make a difference, but there are some caveats. As the study states, ‘even a weak association is important from a population health perspective.'”
“This study provides new information regarding how strong the association of baseline physical activity is with late-life cognition, and while physical activity will be strongly recommended and encouraged for individuals, the narrative of the magnitude of its importance may be modified,” Glatt added.
The role of study quality
The researchers noted that their results indicated a dose-response association between physical activity and cognition in studies that looked at binary outcomes.
Follow-up length, follow-up rate, and physical activity measurement type and quality all played a role in determining the association.
They further noted that they also found that study quality did not significantly moderate any of the associations. For a study to be considered high-quality, it must include more than a 10-year follow-up.
The researchers said they do not believe any other meta-analysis examined continuous outcomes or specific cognitive domains. In addition, they had access to more than 300,000 participants’ medical records.
The most obvious limitation is the sub-standard study quality. There was limited data examining mid-life physical activity and cognition. The scientists noted that excluding studies without valid measures of cognition at baseline might have limited their ability to detect adjustment for baseline cognition.
The researchers indicated they did not assess whether studies accounted for practice effects when measuring cognition.
Promoting good brain health
“When engaging in healthy lifestyle factors for brain health, lifestyle behaviors such as physical activity and cognitive stimulation can help to increase brain blood flow, improve heart health, increase brain activity, and increase brain volumes,” Glatt said
“Even for individuals with cognitive decline and dementia, adhering to and improving upon multiple lifestyle factors may be able to slow cognitive decline or improve behavioral outcomes such as mood or certain aspects of cognition,” he added. “However, this depends upon multiple individual, biological, and environmental factors, including the specific lifestyle changes the person follows.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/risk-of-lung-cancer-significantly-decreases-after-smoking-is-stopped
Risk of lung cancer significantly decreases after smoking is stopped
Stopping smoking reduces cancer risk at any age, especially after 10 years, according to a new study.
Researchers report that former smokers’ risks of developing lung cancer drop the fastest after stopping smoking.
Quitting when you’re younger has stronger benefits in cancer risk reduction, but the benefits of quitting after age 50 are still significant, the researchers said.
Quitting smoking at any age appears to significantly reduce a person’s risk of lung and other cancers.
That’s the conclusion of research published today in the journal JAMA Network Open.
For their study, researchers looked at a cohort of nearly 3 million people over the age of 30 with an average follow-up of 13 years.
In their findings, researchers reported that those who stopped smoking entirely had a 17% lower overall risk of cancer than those who continued to smoke. That included a 42% lower risk of lung cancer incidence, a 27% lower risk of liver cancer, a 14% lower risk of stomach cancer, and a 20% lower risk of colorectal cancer.
Of all cancers, lung cancer risks declined the most quickly following smoking cessation, falling three years earlier than other cancers. And while quitting before age 50 was better for improving your odds against a lung cancer diagnosis — averaging a 57% lower risk of lung cancer — even quitting after age 50 reduces lung cancer risk by 39% compared to continued smokers, the researchers reported.
Reaction to the smoking and cancer risk study
“This is a very large population-based study that demonstrates that smoking cessation reduces cancer risk at any age, particularly at a younger age. It also provides insight into the importance of smoking cessation over a longer period and how this further reduces the risk of getting cancer,” said Dr. Anton Bilchik, a surgical oncologist, chief of medicine, and director of the Gastrointestinal and Hepatobiliary Program at Providence Saint John’s Cancer Institute in California.
“The limitations include that it is a retrospective population-based study and therefore does not have detail on non-cancer related deaths and the impact of smoking cessation,” Bilchik, who was not involved in the research, told Medical News Today.
One unusual finding was that the researchers found that cancer risk was slightly higher for 10 years post-quitting before falling to half the risk of those who continue to smoke after 15 years.
However, this can be explained by the data researchers were working with, according to Dr. Michael Siegel, a professor in the Department of Public Health and Community Medicine at Tufts University School of Medicine in Boston.
“The major limitation of the study is the inclusion of ‘sick smokers’ in the study, which means people who quit specifically because they already experienced cancer symptoms. This resulted in the observation of an increased risk of cancer for the first five years after smoking, which is an anomaly,” he told Medical News Today. “The sensitivity analysis showed that there is a steady decrease in cancer risk after smoking cessation. The main finding is that quitting smoking results in a substantial decrease in cancer risk within about five years, and by 10 years, the risk almost drops to that of nonsmokers.”
This aligns with a note from the study authors of a previous case-control study showing that past smokers who had quit for 10 years had nearly equal the liver cancer risks to those who had never smoked.
Never too late to quit smoking
“These findings reinforce that it is never too late to quit smoking,” Siegel said. “There is never a time when it’s too late to start trying to quit. The health benefits of quitting occur almost immediately and even the cancer risks drop substantially in just a few years.”
Considering the health effects inclusive of, but not limited to, cancer risk is critical, experts say.
From the first hour to the first month to the first year of stopping smoking, people experience improvements in respiratory functioning and blood circulation and see their heart attack risk cut in half, among other benefits.
“This is the most important finding of this study,” Bilchik said. “No matter what age, don’t smoke, and if you do — stop! Also, do not assume that if you have been a long-term smoker, you have no hope. You do and this study supports it.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/bariatric-weight-loss-surgery-is-most-effective-for-blood-pressure-control-study-reports
Bariatric weight loss surgery is most effective for blood pressure control, study reports
Researchers say people with obesity who had bariatric surgery had lower blood pressure, better body mass index scores, and used less medication than those who only used drugs to control hypertension
They say their five-year study demonstrates the lasting health benefits of bariatric surgery
Exercise, improved diet, quitting smoking, and getting better sleep also can reduce blood pressure
Hypertension is common among people with obesity, but people who undergo bariatric surgery to control their weight are better able to lower their blood pressure than those taking antihypertensive medication alone.
That’s according to a study published today in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology.
Researchers reported that individuals who underwent bariatric surgery — procedures involving the digestive system designed to limit the amount of food that can be consumed at one sitting — were more likely to maintain normal blood pressure medication and had lower body mass index (BMI) scores after five years than people with obesity who did not have the surgery.
“Bariatric surgery treats the underlying cause of high blood pressure rather than just dilating the blood vessels” like antihypertensive medications do, said Dr. Mitchell Roslin, the director of bariatric surgery at Northern Westchester Hospital in New York who was not involved in the research.
“Obesity is a symptom of metabolic overload, so if you’re not addressing that, you’re not addressing the problem,” he explained to Medical News Today.
“In clinical practice, obesity is an overlooked condition,” said Dr. Carlos Aurelio Schiavon, the lead author of the study and a surgeon specializing in bariatric surgery at Heart Hospital and BP Hospital in Sao Paulo, Brazil, in a press statement. “As a consequence, there is a frequent failure in approaching obesity as a crucial step for mitigating the risk of important cardiovascular risk factors, including hypertension.”
Details from the study on bariatric surgery and blood pressure
The study included 100 participants, about three-quarters of whom were female.
At the beginning of the study, the subjects had an average BMI of nearly 37Kg/m2, had high blood pressure, and were taking at least two medications.
When assessed at five years, nearly 47% of those who underwent bariatric surgery had controlled their blood pressure without medications, compared to 2% of those who only received medical therapy.
BMI was 28Kg/m2 for those who received bariatric surgery and 36Kg/m2 for those on medical therapy alone. The participants who had bariatric surgery had reduced their medication use by 80% while non-surgical participants only reduced medication use by 13%.
“Bariatric surgery has lasting effects,” said Roslin. “It has been shown to have more long-term benefits than any other surgical procedure,” including reducing cancer and cardiac mortality as well as hypertension.
Strategies for lowering blood pressure
In a commentary accompanying the published study, Dr. Michael Hall, a professor and chair of the Department of Medicine at the University of Mississippi Medical Center, said further studies are needed to assess “the threshold for bariatric surgery in people with obesity, optimal timing of bariatric surgery in obese people with cardiometabolic diseases,” and the type of bariatric surgery that’s most effective.
“[C]omparative studies of obesity pharmacotherapies and bariatric surgery are needed to clarify the optimal treatment pathways for this common and growing disease,” he added.
“In addition to sustained weight loss having a great effect on reducing blood pressure medications, there are additional metabolic effects that result from bariatric surgery,” Dr. Mir Ali, a bariatric surgeon and medical director of MemorialCare Surgical Weight Loss Center at Orange Coast Medical Center in California who was not involved in the research, told Medical News Today. “Not all these effects are well understood and research continues to better comprehend these effects.”
“If patients have hypertension secondary to obesity, then any way a patient can get to a healthy weight — by diet, exercise, medications, etc. — they are more likely to be able to reduce blood pressure,” Ali added. “Additionally, reducing alcohol and nicotine use, reducing salt intake, proper sleep, reducing stress and regular exercise all have beneficial effects on blood pressure.”
“Good aerobic exercise can increase your natural nitroglycerin, which is a vasodilating agent,” Dr. Nicole Weinberg, a cardiologist at Providence Saint John’s Health Center in California who was not involved in the research, told Medical News Today. “This causes your blood vessels to dilate and lowers your blood pressure.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/unique-compounds-salmon-lower-cholesterol-heart-disease-risk
Scientists find compounds in salmon that may lower cholesterol, heart disease risk
Salmon contains unique compounds that are associated with improved cardiometabolic health indicators, such as lower cholesterol, a new nutrimetabolomic study shows.
The study explored the health benefits of salmon in the context of a Mediterranean diet, known for focusing on healthy oils and fats.
As part of the study, participants ate two servings of salmon a week, for two five-week periods.
Nutrimetabolomics is a cutting-edge means of investigating food nutrients, however, not everyone is sold on it.
Salmon has long been considered a healthy food, especially when eaten in diets that forgo excessive salts, processed foods, and unhealthy oils. Now, a new study examines salmon from a metabolomic perspective, and describes, on a molecular level, the health benefits of salmon.
The study found that salmon contains 508 food-specific compounds, or FSCs, including 237 metabolites that are unique to salmon.
When it is eaten as part of a Mediterranean diet, salmon delivers to the body at least 48 of these compounds, along with 30 metabolites — substances produced during digestion or other body chemical processes. Four of these metabolites are associated with significant improvements in cardiometabolic health indicators, or CHI.
A Mediterranean diet has an emphasis on healthy oils for fat, such as olive oil. It favors plant-based sources of nutrition, including vegetables, fruits, and whole grains. Protein is supplied by sources such as poultry, fish, and vegetable proteins such as beans, as well as yogurt and cheese.
Compared to the standard Western diet, the Mediterranean diet largely avoids red meats, sugars, excessive salt, and unhealthy fats.
For the new study, researchers performed a secondary analysis of an existing random controlled feeding trial involving 41 participants who ate a Mediterranean diet for two five-week periods, with a four-week break in between. Individuals ate two servings of salmon per week during the diet intervention periods.
Participants were recruited in the Greater Lafayette, IN area, and none were already eating a Mediterranean diet. Their ages ranged from 30 to 69. They had obesity or overweight, although none had any active metabolic conditions — such as type 2 diabetes — or acute illnesses.
The researchers recorded their CHIs, and collected the participants’ blood plasma samples before and after the study.
The researchers used chromatography-mass spectrometry-based metabolomics to analyze participants’ plasma, as well as salmon and 99 other foods consumed on a Mediterranean diet. If the researchers found a compound in all instances of salmon but not in other diet foods, they characterized it as a salmon FSC.
They then identified metabolites associated with the salmon FSCs via machine learning.
The researchers found increases in two annotated salmon FSCs and two metabolites were associated with greater cardiometabolic health, evident by CHIs in the participants’ blood plasma at the end of the trial. These cardiometabolic benefits included reductions in total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, and apolipoprotein B, which is an indicator of heart disease.
The study is published in The Journal of Nutrition.
What is nutrimetabolomics?
Michelle Routhenstein, cardiology dietician and preventive cardiology nutritionist at EntirelyNourished.com, who was not involved in the study, said the study and its “findings suggest that this approach could help find important compounds in foods that might be helpful for health. But more research is needed to confirm this.”
“Metabolomic studies have highlighted the diverse array of bioactive compounds present in olive oil, such as phenolic compounds and oleic acid, which are associated with anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and cardiovascular health benefits,” she explained.
The same sort of research, said Routhenstein, has found barley, quinoa, and bulgur to be rich sources of phytochemicals. These include phenolic acids, flavonoids, lignans, and phytosterols, compounds possessing antioxidant properties that help to combat oxidative stress and inflammation in the body.
Hyper-focusing on good vs. bad food may be harmful
Conner Middelmann, a nutritionist specializing in the Mediterranean diet who was likewise not involved in the study, expressed some doubts, however, saying, “research that reduces food to infinitesimally tiny molecules that may or may not have some sort of effect on health isn’t highly relevant to my work.”
For her patients, Middelmann continued: “I’m just wondering: will the metabolites of a particular food have the same effect on a wide range of people with different biochemistries and histories? If not, how relevant is this sort of research to people’s day-to-day lives?”
Middelmann cited, among other things, variations in people’s individual biochemistry, genetics, age, sex, medical conditions, and treatments, as well as psycho-socioeconomic and environmental factors that affect biochemistry.
“If anything, I try to help my clients move away from this hyper-granular approach to food as medicine where they obsess about getting compound ‘X’ from one food and avoiding compound ‘Y’ from another,” she said.
“[H]ealth is about so much more than food, and the idea that if we eat ‘perfectly, we’ll be perfectly healthy’ is an illusion,” said Middelmann.
Middelmann noted that several of her clients are now recovering from hyper-focusing on ‘good’ versus ‘bad’ foods.
Other fish that are as good as salmon
The investigation of salmon in a Mediterranean diet demonstrates the flexibility of the diet, since salmon are native to the coasts of the North Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, far from the Mediterranean Sea. They are, however, grown in aquaculture in other locations.
Routhenstein suggested the reason that the non-Mediterranean fish nonetheless qualified as a sensible candidate for the study.
“The diet includes a variety of other fish that have a similar nutritional profile and are associated with numerous health benefits. For instance, sardines and trout are rich in omega-3 fatty acids, particularly EPA and DHA, which are beneficial for heart health. They are also a good source of protein, vitamin D, and calcium,” she noted.
To Middelmann, who specializes in the Mediterranean diet, it “is about joyfully eating lots of different types of fish and seafood, but also a wide variety of everything else — veggies, legumes, whole grains, fruits, nuts, seeds, olives, eggs, yogurt, cheese, etc. — because it tastes good, makes you feel good, and is nutritious.”
“I know that doesn’t sound very scientific, but it seems to work pretty well for the folks living in the Mediterranean region,” she added.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/2023-in-medicine-artificial-sweeteners-colon-cancer-male-birth-control
2023 in medicine: Artificial sweeteners, colon cancer, and male birth control
2023 has witnessed no shortage of medical firsts and breakthroughs but has also seen many alarming headlines. What were some of these intriguing studies and worrying trends? Our editors Andrea Rice, Maria Cohut, and Yasemin Nicola Sakay discuss this year’s stand-out research and health and wellness topics in our December “In Conversation” episode.
2023 was a year of many medical firsts — from the first evidence that anti-obesity GLP-1 drugs improve cardiovascular outcomes beyond weight loss alone, to the FDA’s approval of the first RSV vaccine ‘Arexvy’ in the U.S., this year has witnessed many medical breakthroughs. Some other notable advances were lecanemab’s approval by the FDA for Alzheimer’s after it was shown to slow cognitive decline despite many concerns surrounding its safety. Norgestrel’s approval to be sold over the counter as an oral contraceptive also made the headlines.
Speaking of birth control, the lack of non-barrier options for men — unlike the plethora of pills available for women — caught the attention of Maria Cohut, our features editor, who did a deep dive into the whys behind this.
Andrea Rice, meanwhile, was concerned about the rise in colon cancer cases in young people, while the WHO’s announcement of sucralose being labeled “genotoxic”, or DNA damage-causing, was a standout piece of research for me.
If you’d like to hear more about how our discussion went, please listen to our podcast episode in full below or on your preferred streaming platform.
Will I get cancer from using artificial sweeteners like sucralose?
The first topic we delved into was that of the link between artificial sweeteners and cancer. This particular piece of research found that a chemical in a commonly used artificial sweetener may cause DNA damage.
The chemical in question was sucralose-6-acetate, a metabolite of the sweetener sucralose. The study findings showed that sucralose harms gut health and may lead to oxidative stress, inflammation, and DNA damage, and hence increase the risk of cancer.
Dr. Hilary Guite, our presenter, pointed out the most common food items that contain this sweetener: “It’s in chewing gum, salad dressings, barbecue sauces, sugar-free jams…”
One important nuance here was that this study was done on human blood cells. To see the same DNA-damaging effect in humans, an average human weighing 70 kilograms would have to consume 18 liters of sucralose-sweetened beverages daily.
Andrea then asked: “Why [is] there such little research about the cancer-causing effects of artificial sweeteners in humans when we are aware that there are so many potential health risks involved with consuming too much sugar in general?”
Although it is a difficult question to answer, there are many obstacles — including funding, timing, and ethical challenges in conducting such long-term studies in humans.
Why are colon cancer rates rising in young people?
Our next topic was colon cancer and how worried we should be about the near doubling of cases in recent years. The study identified four key symptoms linked to an increased risk of early-onset colorectal cancer in younger adults. The symptoms included abdominal pain, rectal bleeding, diarrhea, and iron deficiency anemia.
Andrea started off with a statistic: “[W]e’re seeing this huge increase in [the proportion of] colon and rectal cancer incidence in people under 55. It’s doubled over the past 20 years from 11% to 20%.”
She pointed out that early onset cancer is defined as being diagnosed under the age of 50 and current recommendations for colorectal cancer screenings start at around age 45.
Maria drew attention the specific symptoms the study listed:
“[Out of this list of symptoms], diarrhea is not uncommon. Iron deficiency anemia is not uncommon. And what was emphasized in the study was that having just one of these symptoms could almost double your risk of colon cancer, which to me was shocking. My question is the question that everybody’s asking: Why is this happening?”
A multitude of factors can explain the rise of colon cancer rates.
“[I]t may be attributed to just being a byproduct of how we live and work. [M]ost of us engaged in any type of knowledge work where you’re sitting all day, there’s going to be health consequences. So lifestyle factors play a role, diet plays a role. Of course, a person’s health history, and even family history of colon cancer can also play a role,” said Andrea.
Why is there no male birth control pill on the market yet?
Our final topic was contraception and more specifically, birth control options for men. This feature on the male birth control pill questioned why there were no oral contraceptives for men on the market despite equivalents for females being in use since the 1960s.
Maria broached the subject by listing the current two options available for men: condoms and vasectomies.
She said that although condoms are the most common barrier method of contraception, they may not be suitable for everyone as the materials, spermicides, or lubricants used within them may cause allergies, and also there is the possibility of the condom breaking. As for vasectomies, reversal may have a 95% success rate of return of sperm, but pregnancy after a vasectomy reversal is still only 30-70%.
Meanwhile, I had one question on my mind regarding the lack of oral contraceptives:
“[A] lot of these trials were stopped by the researchers or the funders after they saw that men had a lot of side effects. One of them, for example, was mood disorders like depression. So, my question is, we have something on the market already that causes such side effects, but we’re subjecting millions of women to take these, why can’t men do that? [W]hat do you think is the main reason behind this?”
In the feature, Prof. Lonny Levin told Medical News Today that female hormonal birth control continues on the market “just because society has come to accept it” by now, but “the side effect bar for a healthy person to take a drug is really high, and it should be.”
“I would bet that we have the technology and resources to create a male oral contraceptive that is safe with minimal side effects. I mean, if we can manufacture and prove the safety of a COVID-19 vaccine in a short timeframe, certainly, we have the ability, from a science perspective to create this contraceptive,” said Andrea.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/in-conversation-why-exercise-is-key-to-living-a-long-and-healthy-life
In Conversation: Why exercise is key to living a long and healthy life
What should we do in order to live healthier lives for longer? Research shows there are a few lifestyle interventions that can effectively prolong our life and health span. One of these is exercise, but what kind, and in what combinations, and why does it help add years to our lives? Find out in our latest podcast episode.
Seemingly since times immemorial, humankind has been, metaphorically speaking, seeking the path that leads to the “Fountain of Youth” — that is ways to ensure a longer, healthier life.
And while we may not yet benefit of any “miracle” medicines or technologies to prolong our life spans well over the hundred-year mark, many recent studies have provided strong evidence in support of the notion that simple, achievable lifestyle changes can help us stay healthy for longer and decrease our risk of premature death.
Research presented at the American Heart Association’s Scientific Sessions 2023, for example, suggested that eight healthy habits can slow down biological aging by as much as 6 years.
These habits are related to diet, maintaining a healthy weight, avoiding tobacco, maintaining good sleep hygiene, managing cholesterol, blood sugar, and blood pressure, and, no less importantly, staying physically active.
In the latest instalment of our In Conversation podcast, Medical News Today explores the link between exercise and living a long and healthy life, in dialogue with Dr. Borja del Pozo Cruz and Dr. Edwina (Eddie) Brocklesby.
Dr. del Pozo Cruz is principal researcher in Applied Health Sciences at the University of Cadiz in Spain, and adjunct associate professor in the Department of Sports Science and Clinical Biomechanics at the University of Southern Denmark.
In collaboration with other researchers, Dr. del Pozo Cruz has conducted various studies exploring the link between different forms of exercise and the risk of death from different causes.
Dr. Brocklesby has gained fame under the nickname “Iron Gran,” as at the age of 72, she was the oldest British woman to complete an Ironman Triathlon. She is also founder and CEO of Silverfit, a not-for-profit organization promoting lifelong fitness.
What types of exercise lower death risk?
In a study published in JAMA Internal Medicine in August 2023, Dr. del Pozo Cruz and his colleagues analyzed data from 500,705 participants followed up for a median period of 10 years to see how different forms of exercise related to a person’s mortality risk.
The study looked at the effect of moderate aerobic physical activity, such as walking or gentle cycling, vigorous aerobic physical activity, such as running, and muscle-strengthening activity, like weight lifting.
Its findings indicated that a balanced combination of all of these forms of exercise worked best for reducing mortality risk.
More specifically, around 75 minutes of moderate aerobic exercise, plus more than 150 minutes of vigorous exercise, alongside at least a couple of strength training sessions per week were associated with a lower risk of all-cause mortality.
When it came to reducing the risk of death linked to cardiovascular disease specifically, Dr. del Pozo Cruz and his collaborators suggested combining a minimum of 150–225 minutes of moderate physical activity with around 75 minutes of vigorous exercise, and two or more strength training sessions per week.
Dr. Brocklesby, who goes by “Eddie,” is herself an example of the importance of combining different forms of exercise. Indeed, training and participating in a triathlon — which is an endurance multisport race where participants compete in swimming, cycling, and running — involves achieving a balanced “diet” of moderate and vigorous exercise, as well as strength training.
How little exercise is enough?
But what about people who are not nearly as athletic? What is the minimum “amount” of exercise that could help fend off some of the conditions that pose the highest threat to health?
Dr. del Pozo Cruz and his team may also have found an answer to this question. In December 2022, they published the findings to a previous study in the European Heart Journal.
This research suggested that engaging in vigorous exercise for only 2 minutes a day could help slash the risk of death related to cancer or cardiovascular events.
The researchers found that study participants who never engaged in vigorous exercise had a 4% risk of dying within 5 years, but introducing less than 10 minutes of vigorous activity weekly halved this risk. Moreover, their risk of death halved again for those who engaged in at least 60 minutes of exercise per week.
Is any physical activity good?
In our podcast, Dr. del Pozo Cruz emphasized that almost any amount of any form of exercise is better than none, a point reinforced by a new study arguing that any activity at all is better for heart health than a sedentary lifestyle.
However, he also cautioned that physical activity related to chores or to one’s job, as opposed to exercise in a leisure context, may sometimes do more harm than good.
Once again, his idea is supported by recently published research, which found a link between physically demanding occupations and a higher risk of cognitive impairment.
Some of the most common occupations linked to intensive physical activity cited in this research were in nursing and care, retail, and farming, where individuals are on their feet a lot, and often having to deal with stressful situations.
So while all forms of exercise can be good for health, strenuous or intensive physical activity in a work environment could end up compounding the risk of various health conditions.
And even exercise for leisure can affect aspects of physical health — such as joint integrity — particularly later in life. In our podcast, both Dr. del Pozo Cruz and Eddie emphasized the importance of consulting a trusted healthcare provider, who can advise on the best forms of exercise to engage in on an individual basis.
To find out more about how and why different forms of exercise can support longevity, and to hear the story of how Edwina became “Iron Gran,” listen to our podcast episode in full below or on your preferred streaming platform.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/in-conversation-what-do-we-know-about-the-gut-microbiome-in-ibd
In Conversation: What do we know about the gut microbiome in IBD?
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) affects millions of people, often severely impacting their day-to-day lives. What role does the gut microbiome play in IBD, and can we harness dietary interventions to manage symptoms? Medical News Today explores this question In Conversation with a researcher and an expert through lived experience.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is an umbrella-term that encompasses ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease, two chronic gastrointestinal conditions characterized by inflammation of the gut.
Some of the symptoms of IBD include nausea and vomiting, blood in stool, diarrhea, abdominal pain, fatigue, and irregularities in the menstrual cycle — all of these are invisible issues that can severely impact a person’s quality of life on a daily basis.
IBD affects many people all over the world. In the United States, for example, around 1% of all adults have diagnosed IBD — and while that may seem like a small percentage overall, it actually amounts to approximately 2 million people.
In the United Kingdom, the most recent estimates suggest that IBD affects around 0.8% of the population, or around 131,000 people.
And that figure may be a serious underestimate of the real prevalence of IBD, as both Crohn’s and ulcerative colitis have symptoms that can also be attributed to other chronic conditions, which often makes them difficult to diagnose.
Research from the U.K. published in the Journal of Crohn’s and Colitis in 2020 suggested that an individual could see their doctor in relation to persistent gastrointestinal symptoms for 5 years before they receive the correct diagnosis of IBD.
A different gut microbiome
Yet recent research shows that in people with IBD, the gut microbiome — the community of bacteria and other microorganisms in the gastrointestinal tract — has certain particularities that set it apart from the microbiomes of healthy individuals, and which may offer clues to better treatments.
In this episode of our In Conversation podcast, we speak to Dr. Marcel de Zoete, an associate professor in the Department of Medical Microbiology at UMC Utrecht, The Netherlands.
In January 2023, Dr. de Zoete and his colleagues published a paper in the International Journal of Systematic and Evolutionary Microbiology, showing that people with IBD had two previously unidentified bacterial species in their intestinal tracts — a new species of Allobaculum mucilyticum, and a new species of Allobaculum fili. This finding may offer important clues about the underlying mechanisms in IBD, as well as potential new treatments.
Can diet help manage symptoms?
Joining us in conversation was also Zosia Krajewska, who lives with ulcerative colitis, and received her diagnosis at the age of 14.
Zosia told us about how changing her diet and lifestyle — alongside medical treatments — has helped her manage her ulcerative colitis and feel healthier, overall.
Past research has suggested that, in some people, dietary fiber and high-sugar diets can worsen the symptoms of IBD, while favoring ultra-processed foods can increase the risk of Crohn’s disease.
Conversely, a recent study showed that following a healthy diet and having a healthy lifestyle may help reduce a person’s risk of IBD.
Future research avenues for treatments
Beyond lifestyle interventions, however, it is also important for researchers to find better ways of fighting the underlying mechanisms of IBD.
One promising avenue is research looking at gut immune cells, which play an important role in inflammation and other processes in the gut. Harnessing immune cell activity in the gut may, in the future, help treat different forms of IBD.
Another potential treatment line that has been receiving attention from researchers, but which is currently only rarely used in clinical settings, is fecal microbiota transplantation. This presupposes the transfer of “good bacteria” into the guts of people with gastrointestinal disorders.
Find out more about the current research on IBD causes and treatments, and delve into a candid discussion on the real-life impact of IBD by listening to our podcast in full below, or on your preferred streaming platform.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/in-conversation-my-podcast-changed-me
In Conversation: My podcast changed me
What makes us change? Why is it so difficult to change our minds about things? And what is it that makes us take action and change our behavior? Medical News Today tries to answer these questions while sharing three podcasts that inspired concrete changes in their lives.
It’s not often that something we read, listen to, or see has a real lasting impact on our behavior. In fact, sparking such a fundamental change in habits—owing to the nature of the way the human brain operates—is a lot more complex than thought.
According to behavioral change models, getting a human to purposefully change their habits or behavior requires the following driving forces:
So, not only do we need the inspiration to change our minds or behavior, but we also need the motivation and renewed commitment to turn it into action and stick with it.
On that note, this month, Dr. Hilary Guite, Medical News Today’s Features Editor Maria Cohut, and Global News Editor Yasemin Nicola Sakay sat down to discuss the impact previous In Conversation podcast episodes had on them— specifically, the ones that got them to change their behavior, leading them to adopt new habits in their daily lives.
If you’d like to hear snippets from our daily lives and listen to our discussion on how these episodes helped spark changes in our lives and how we embraced change, listen to our podcast on your preferred streaming platform down below:
Changing our minds
Dr. Guite chose January 2022’s blood donation special episode, for which we collaborated with the American Red Cross to encourage more people to donate blood and plasma products amid a winter marred by a blood shortage crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic. For Dr. Guite, the episode and the frank discussions we had helped her get over that initial fear of donating blood and prompted her to become a donor again after a 20–30-year break.
She said the blood donor and the recipient talking about the “gift of life” was especially inspirational, and what Dr. Baia Lasky, medical director of the American Red Cross, said next really chimed in with her life values:
“Because it’s something that is universal. [W]e are connecting people in a way that most donors never meet the patients and most patients never meet their donors. And I think it’s a really powerful testimony to how we are connected and how interdependent we are on one another, and in a very palpable way.”
Acting on our intentions
For Maria, the standout podcast was January 2023’s podcast on diet and mental health, which was one of the episodes that were a part of our nutrition-dedicated series.
She said after hearing about the connection between inflammation and foods and how they can impact neurotransmitters and chemicals in the brain and affect mood, she decided to try a few tips for herself to see if she’d see any changes.
One piece of advice that stuck with Maria was the importance of variety in one’s diet.
“So, go to the supermarket and if you always buy one kind of bean, buy six kinds of beans. If you always buy one kind of flour, buy six kinds of flour. If you always buy one kind of oil to cook with buy six kinds of oil. I mean, flax oil is a good one for omega-3s— [especially] if you don’t like oily fish, which not everybody would like,” she recalled Rachel Kelly, a U.K.-based mental health campaigner who has been outspoken about how diet helped treat her own depression, saying on that episode.
Our discussion spanned from comfort foods to disordered eating before inevitably touching on the Mediterranean diet and its many benefits— not only for mental health but also for the heart and the brain.
We also talked about “happy foods” such as green leafy vegetables, oily fish, and dark chocolate. Maria shared that she had incorporated more fish into her diet and her favorite hojicha, Japanese green tea. (Also, the episode contains an impromptu recipe for a Mediterranean-inspired mung bean salad.)
Changing how we feel
For me, there were many contenders, but perhaps the first one that came to mind was September 2022’s podcast on chronic pain. In that episode, we delved into the science behind how pain becomes chronic and addressed what it means when we say “pain is the brain.” We also shared with our listeners our own experiences— led by Joel Nelson, a longtime psoriatic disease and arthritis patient and advocate, who shared his personal journey with pain.
One of the quotes that stood out to me in that episode was by Dr. Tony L. Yaksh, professor of anesthesiology and pharmacology at the University of California, San Diego:
“[W]e started out this conversation by saying pain is in the brain. So when I say pain is in the brain, I am not saying it’s any less real, in any way, shape, or form. It’s a real thing. [W]e now teach medical students that just because you don’t see the primary diagnosis as being a swollen joint doesn’t mean the patient doesn’t have something. [T]he intent is to actually validate and bring into reality, the kinds of issues that occur when you discover that stress and so forth has changed this pain condition. [M]indfulness in a way can help the individual.”
Not long after this podcast, I enrolled in a genetics-based nutrition and mindfulness program that helped me shift my views about pain and chronic inflammation, leading me to tweak my ways of managing pain. The biggest takeaway for me from that episode was that the key to managing and treating pain was lowering stress levels and inflammation and building up mental resilience. In this episode, I shared some of the steps I took to achieve that— which included a different approach to using painkillers.
How to change our habits
One of the biggest takeaways from our discussion was that change does not happen overnight. The key is to take small steps that can be slowly integrated into one’s daily life.
Another point was the importance of showing yourself grace and being more self-compassionate when trying to turn these behavioral changes into habits.
Letting such changes fit into one’s values instead of going against them and adopting a positive attitude to alter thinking were other points that seem crucial in making a change stick. For more, we’d encourage you to tune in to the podcast.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/malfunctioning-immune-cells-may-cause-type-2-diabetes-in-obesity
Malfunctioning immune cells may cause type 2 diabetes in obesity
People with obesity are at higher risk of developing insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes than those of a healthy weight.
However, the conditions to develop insulin resistance do not affect everyone with obesity.
Now, scientists investigating why some remain healthy and others do not have discovered that adipose (fat) tissue may influence cell function.
Their research, which they conducted in mouse models, suggests that, in some individuals, obesity disrupts the function of macrophages — which clean up cell fragments — leading to inflammation and metabolic disorders.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the number of people with obesity worldwide has tripled in the past 50 years. While the United States and Europe top the scale, South East Asian and African countries are fast catching up.
People with obesity have a body mass index (BMI) of more than 30, although it must be remembered that BMI alone cannot determine whether that mass is made up of muscle or fatty tissue.
More usefully, the WHO defines obesity as “abnormal or excessive fat accumulation that presents a risk to health” together with a BMI of more than 30.
Obesity increases the risk of several health conditions, which include:
However, many people with obesity will not develop these conditions, and scientists at the University of Gothenburg, Sweden, may have found a reason why some are more likely to progress to metabolic disorders than others.
Why do only some people with obesity develop diabetes?
In a mouse study, the researchers found that, in some people, adipose tissue disrupts the function of white blood cells called macrophages, preventing them from cleaning up fragments of collagen.
This may lead to inflammation, increasing the likelihood of type 2 diabetes.
The study is published in PNAS.
Sebnem Unluisler, genetic engineer at the London Regenerative Institute, not involved in this research, commented to Medical News Today:
“This study adds to a growing body of evidence highlighting the complex interplay between obesity, adipose tissue dysfunction, and metabolic disease. Understanding the mechanisms underlying these relationships is crucial for developing more effective strategies for preventing and treating conditions like type 2 diabetes.”
High-fat diet leads to collagen breakdown
Previous research found that excess adipose, or fatty, tissue can lead to activation of immune cells that cause inflammation and lead to insulin resistance.
For this study, the researchers placed 7-week-old mice on a high-fat diet for 1 week, which resulted in a significant gain in adipose tissue compared with control mice fed a regular diet.
In the mice on the high-fat diet, more collagen type 1 was broken down into fragments, and macrophage numbers in the adipose tissue increased. These macrophages cleared the collagen fragments.
However, in high-fat diet-induced obese insulin-resistant male mice, the macrophages were unable to clear the fragments, and instead caused an inflammatory reaction.
The researchers conclude that collagen fragments are not inert metabolites and solely markers of tissue remodeling, but change the microenvironment within the adipose tissue.
Dysfunctional adipose tissue leads to insulin resistance
Prof. Ingrid Wernstedt Asterholm, corresponding author and research leader in the Department of Physiology/Metabolic Physiology, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, The Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg, Sweden, told MNT:
“We are not 100% sure why the macrophages fail to take up fragmented collagen, but our data suggest that too high levels of nutrients drive this. And when these macrophages fail there will be accumulation of fragments in adipose tissue, and we show that such fragments trigger inflammation which may aggravate adipose tissue dysfunction.”
“Dysfunctional adipose tissue cannot effectively store excess nutrients which then leads to deleterious fat deposition in, for example, the liver […] this will then lead to systemic insulin resistance that eventually can cause metabolic disorders such as type-2 diabetes,” she continued.
The researchers saw similar effects in vitro when they treated human macrophages with palmitate, high glucose and high insulin to mimic conditions that lead to obesity.
Prof. Wernstedt Asterholm told us: “We show that human macrophages have similar function and regulation. Our current research focuses on translating our mouse findings to the human setting and it looks promising so far. I would also like to see whether and how this macrophage-collagen-axis plays a role in other tissues such as in the heart.”
Potential for diabetes diagnosis and treatment
“Dysregulation of adipose tissue function, characterized by altered collagen turnover and macrophage activity, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of metabolic diseases. Understanding the specific cellular and molecular mechanisms involved could lead to novel therapeutic strategies for managing these conditions,” Unluisler told us.
Although the researchers behind this study found that isolated human cells reacted in a similar way to mouse cells, Unluisler said that she would like to see further research to confirm that similar adipose dysfunction occurs in people.
“While findings from animal studies can give us valuable insights, we need to be cautious when applying them to humans. Mice and humans have similarities, but also differences that might affect how findings translate. Further research with human subjects is necessary to confirm these results,” she told MNT.
And the researchers are planning more research into both treatment and diagnosis of type 2 diabetes, as Prof. Asterholm noted:
“Hopefully we will identify a macrophage target that can be used for developing better therapeutics..but in a more near future one could imagine that certain collagen fragments from adipose tissue end up in the circulation and thereby can be used as biomarkers to identify individuals that are at higher risk for developing type 2 diabetes.”
So, it is early days, but this study adds to the evidence that obesity may lead to adipose tissue dysfunction and metabolic diseases, and offers an explanation for why this might happen. It could help identify those at greater risk of type 2 diabetes and even help the development of more effective therapies.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/castor-oil-potential-natural-treatment-dry-eye-disease
Castor oil may have potential as a natural treatment for dry eye disease
Researchers based in New Zealand finished a pilot trial on a natural treatment for dry eye disease.
Dry eye disease, also called keratoconjunctivitis sicca, affects millions of people and can affect vision and quality of life.
The trial involved applying castor oil to the eyelids for a period of four weeks.
By the end of the trial, participants experienced an overall improvement in symptoms, including improvement in how thick their eyelids were.
Dry eye disease is a common condition that can cause inflammation in the eyes. According to the American Academy of Ophthalmology (AAO), it affects approximately 20 million people in the U.S.
While there are some treatments available for dry eye disease, researchers from the University of Auckland were curious if a natural remedy could be effective. They conducted a pilot study where participants applied castor oil to their eyelids, which proved beneficial for the participants.
The researchers are conducting another study to see if they can enhance those benefits further by mixing castor oil with mānuka and kanuka oils.
Further information about the current trial is available via the University of Auckland.
What causes dry eye disease?
The National Institutes of Health (NIH) says that dry eye disease can occur for a number of reasons, including disease, environmental factors, and allergies.
A disease called  is a common culprit as it causes inflammation that leads to a thickening of the and flaking and crusting of the eyelids. This contributes to developing dry eyes.
Some signs and symptoms of dry eye disease include:
The disease is more common in people ages 50 and older, particularly in women. Women undergoing menopause are more at risk for dry eye disease since the hormone changes can lead to changes in the tear film of the eyes.
Some treatments available for dry eye disease include over-the-counter remedies such as artificial tears and nighttime lubricants. Additionally, research has shown that some people may improve the quality of their tears but not the quantity by taking vitamin A. There may be a role for omega-3 supplements, particularly in those with low dietary intake, but evidence from a systematic review concluded that the results of trials were inconsistent.
Doctors may prescribe eye drops such as cyclosporine (Restasis) or lifitegrast (Xiidra), which have an anti-inflammatory effect.
The 4-week trial
is a vegetable oil made from a plant called Ricinus communis and works as a laxative and a natural treatment for some skin conditions such as acne.
According to the National Institutes of Health, castor oil can enhance the “smoothness and softening” of the skin and can also promote “an increase in healthy pores and skin tissue through moisturizing, hydrating, and cleansing.”
With those benefits in mind, the study researchers wanted to see whether castor oil could be beneficial for treating dry eye disease.
The scientists recruited 26 people with the disease caused by blepharitis to participate in the trial. In order to be eligible for the study, the participants could not have had ocular surgery in the past three months, they could not wear contacts during the study, and they had to agree to discontinue the use of any lid hygiene products.
At the beginning of the trial, participants completed questionnaires that assessed their symptoms and participated in eye exams. After these assessments, the scientists instructed the participants to apply castor oil to their bottom and top eyelids in the morning and at night for four weeks.
After the 4-week period was over, the researchers assessed the participants again to see whether there were any improvements in their symptoms.
Overall improvement in dry eye symptoms with castor oil
Using castor oil as a treatment for dry eye disease showed promise during the month-long trial.
By the end of the trial period, participants saw an overall improvement in their dry eye symptoms.
Some benefits the participants experienced included lessened crusting around the eyelashes and improvement in the eyelid thickening.
The latter is especially significant since that is a hallmark of blepharitis. Any reduction in the eyelid thickening will lead to improvement of other symptoms associated with it as well.
Trial participants also did not have as much redness on their eyelids when they completed four weeks of the castor oil treatment.
“Castor oil has been proposed as a natural product that could offer a safe, effective and easy-to-use alternative to existing therapies,” says study investigator Professor Jennifer Craig.
“My hope is this study will produce evidence-based guidance for clinicians with regard to offering castor oil as a possible management option for patients suffering from blepharitis,” continues Prof. Craig.
Castor oil: A cheaper treatment alternative
Dr. Cory Bovenzi, a facial plastic surgeon at Smith Cosmetic Surgery based in Denver, Colorado, weighed in on the castor oil trial for Medical News Today. Dr. Bovenzi often treats people with dry eye disease, including performing surgery on the eyelids when necessary.
“Castor oil has a number of properties that may make it a good candidate for treating dry eye disease,” Dr. Bovenzi told MNT. “It acts as an emollient (moisturizing agent) that has a long-lasting effect that may have a longer duration than the current eye drops on the market.”
“It also has antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory effects that may help decrease the amount of microbes that can block or inflame the meibomian glands which normally lubricate the eyes,” Dr. Bovenzi continued.
Dr. Bovenzi thinks that castor oil has the potential to be a cheaper alternative to other treatments for dry eye disease.
“Using castor oil to treat dry eye disease may give more long-lasting and substantial relief to patients who suffer from this condition compared to current treatments available,” said Dr. Bovenzi. “It has been shown to be a safe treatment for other medical applications, and it is promising to see these preliminary reports about another potential use for this relatively cheap and safe treatment option.”
Dr. Bovenzi advises people who have dry eye symptoms to consult their doctors since sometimes it can be a result of an autoimmune disease such as Sjogren’s syndrome.
Since Sjogren’s syndrome can cause vision problems and peripheral neuropathy if it is not properly treated, it is best to consult with a healthcare professional before trying natural remedies to avoid causing long-term damage.
Dr. Margaret Wang French also spoke with MNT about the trial. Dr. Wang French is an assistant professor in the Department of Ophthalmology at UT Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas and is board certified in ophthalmology.
“Their initial study of 26 patients did show improvement in blepharitis, a disease that can cause evaporative dry eye disease,” commented Dr. Wang French. “However, this small pilot study was done without controls or randomization, so they are in the process of studying their hypothesis in a randomized controlled trial — a golden standard for meaningful medical research.”
Dr. Wang French also noted that patients should work with their doctors on a treatment plan.
“Each patient should have a tailored regimen, depending on their subjective issues and objective findings with their dry eye specialist,” noted Dr. Wang French. “Consistency and patience with therapy are the two characteristics that have helped my patients the most.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/an-estimated-35-million-new-cancer-cases-to-occur-in-2050-who-warns
An estimated 35 million new cancer cases to occur in 2050, WHO warns
While experts have made significant advances in treating cancer, cancer continues to remain a global health concern.
The latest report from the World Health Organization predicts that there will be over 35 million new cases of cancer in 2050, a significant rise from the approximate 20 million cancer cases that occurred in 2022.
Reports from the International Agency for Research on Cancer found that lung, breast, and colorectal cancers are the most common types worldwide.
The data point to several factors contributing to cancer cases and allows for exploring mitigation and prevention strategies.
Cancer continues to be a global burden, making it critical to collect data in this area regularly. The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) is part of the World Health Organization (WHO).
It gathers data on the burden of cancer all over the world. This group just released the latest fact sheets and information on the global burden of cancer in 2022.
WHO also released a statement highlighting some of the key findings.
Cancer cases are rising, but what types and where?
Certain cancer types are more common, and some carry an overall higher mortality rate worldwide. IARC collects data on these numerous areas to help create a more complete picture of the effects of cancer, allowing for brainstorming strategies to address the problem.
According to one of the IARC reports worldwide, the top three most common cancers in 2022 were lung, breast, and colorectal cancer. Among men and women, lung cancer accounted for 12.4% of all cancer cases.
Among men, the top three most common cancers were lung, prostate, and colorectal. Among women, the top three most common cancers were breast, lung, and colorectal, with breast cancer accounting for 23.8% of all new cancer cases among females in 2022.
Worldwide, the mortality rate for lung cancer is currently the highest, with an overall 16.8% mortality rate. It accounted for over 2.4 million cases worldwide and over 1.8 million deaths. Incidence, mortality, and prevalence were highest in Asia and second highest in Europe.
Similarly, breast cancer accounted for over 2.3 million cases worldwide. In mortality, it ranked number four and accounted for almost 670,000 deaths.
77% rise in cancer cases by 2050
Mortality from cancer varies significantly throughout the world. The most stark difference is between countries with a very high human development index and countries with a low human development index.
Among countries with a low human development index, there were 811,014 new cancer cases and 543,337 deaths. In contrast, among countries with a very high human development index, there were 9,296,171 new cancer cases and only 3,643,502 deaths.
WHO estimates that the number of new cancer cases in 2050 will rise 77% to a total of 35 million cases.
While high human development countries will likely still experience some of the highest incidence levels, low and medium human development index countries will see a steep increase from previously.
WHO further estimates this will lead to high mortality levels in low and medium human development index countries. It estimates that in 2050, the mortality amounts in these countries may almost double.
Factors contributing to rising cancer cases
The burden of cancer is related to several factors. The statement from WHO suggests that people in countries with a lower human development index may receive diagnoses later and have a lower chance of access to quality treatment. This can significantly increase the risk of poor cancer health outcomes.
Another struggle is people’s ability to get governmental assistance for cancer-related services. In this statement, the WHO referenced survey data from 115 countries on components of their universal health coverage.
This survey data found that only 39% of these countries included basic cancer management as part of health benefit packages for their citizens.
Health benefit packages also varied considerably between countries. For example, high-income countries were more likely to have lung cancer-related services, radiation services, and stem-cell transplantation as part of their health benefit packages than low-income countries were.
Environmental factors and lifestyle choices also contribute to cancer’s impact. For example, the WHO statement suggests that the increase in lung cancer cases is related to the continued use of tobacco in Asia. They also note that the data reflects increases in the aging population and population growth.
Alcohol use, tobacco use, and obesity continue to contribute to cancer rate increases overall. Exposure to air pollution is also a likely contributing factor.
Surgical oncologist Dr. Anton Bilchik, who is chief of medicine and Director of the Gastrointestinal and Hepatobiliary Program at Saint John’s Cancer Institute in Santa Monica, CA, speculated about a few other factors that may be contributing to cancer rate increases.
“There are major disparities in healthcare and the disproportionate increase in cancer cases among poorer countries is striking. The rise is related to poor nutrition, smoking, lack of public awareness and limited access to screening. Furthermore, there is a higher mortality once diagnosed for similar reasons — lack of access to modern surgical techniques and effective systemic therapies,” he told us.
Private practice oncologist and current president of Maryland Oncology Hematology, Dr. George A. Sotos, offered further potential contributing factors:
“A report released by the WHO on February 4, documented a significant increase in global cancer incidence. A study in the British Medical Journal [BMJ Oncology] in September 2023 described a similar significant increase in cancer in people less than 50 years old. It is difficult to pinpoint the exact reasons for this rise. Some of the increase can be attributed to increased screening efforts and increased reporting, and some to a growing and aging population, but the authors of both studies also propose that dietary factors, including obesity and alcohol consumption, and environmental factors such as pollution and especially tobacco use, were major contributors.”
Mitigation and prevention strategies
While the eradication of cancer is unrealistic, there is the possibility for mitigation and prevention. Action can take place at many levels to improve access to screening and treatment.
Various governments and medical organizations can help by raising awareness and increasing understanding of cancer risk. The statement from WHO suggests that countries could reexamine prioritizing cancer in health benefits packages.
People can also take steps at the individual level to cut down on personal risk factors. For example, people can quit smoking to help decrease their risk for several cancer types.
They can also seek to follow a balanced diet, maintain a healthy weight, and limit alcohol use. They can further discuss their doctor’s recommendations for cancer screening and follow-up.
Dr. Bilchik noted that:
“Many cancers are completely preventable. This can only be accomplished with a significant investment in cancer prevention education and better access to cancer screening. Individuals should recognize the importance of a healthy lifestyle, exercise, the avoidance of smoking, a healthy diet as ways of preventing cancer.”
Dr. Shana O. Ntiri, associate professor in the Department of Family & Community Medicine, executive director of the Mini Medical School at the University of Maryland School of Medicine and Medical Director of the Baltimore City Cancer Program, and senior medical advisor in the Office of Community Outreach and Engagement at the University of Maryland Marlene and Stewart Greenebaum Cancer Center, commented with her thoughts on prevention to Medical News Today.
“The report names lung, breast, and colon as the three major cancer types in 115 countries including the [United States,” she told us. “These are three cancers for which we know prevention-focused behavioral changes and screening can significantly decrease cancer morbidity and mortality.”
“Stopping tobacco use, maintaining a healthy weight, eating nutritious meals and being active are key ways that people can reduce their risk of getting cancer. It’s also important to keep up with regular screenings, such as mammograms for breast cancer, colonoscopies for colorectal cancer and PSA testing for prostate cancer,” Dr. O Ntiri advised.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/how-a-new-medication-to-treat-psoriatic-arthritis-can-help-children
How a new medication to treat psoriatic arthritis can help children
Psoriatic arthritis is an immune-driven condition that can occur in children with psoriasis
Although treatments are available, they do not work for every child.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration recently approved abatacept (Orencia) to treat these children.
Abatacept, marketed by Bristol Myers Squibb, is a biologic drug.
Trials indicate the drug is safe and effective for children aged 2 and older.
Psoriasis is a common skin condition characterized by scaly and inflamed skin.
It affects around 2% to 3% of the world’s population.
An estimated 30% of people with psoriasis also develop psoriatic arthritis (PsA) — a chronic inflammatory condition that affects people’s joints.
Most commonly, it first occurs in adults aged 30 to 50 years, but it can appear much earlier.
PsA in children
Roughly one-third of psoriasis cases begin during childhood.
Although it happens more rarely than in adults, these children are also at risk of developing PsA.
This is called juvenile psoriatic arthritis (JPsA) and the peak onset age is 2 to 3 years with another peak occurring in mid-adolescence. Diagnosing adult PsA is difficult and JPsA has additional challenges.
Medical News Today spoke with Dr. Pamela Weiss, the director of rheumatology clinical research and attending physician in the Division of Rheumatology at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia.
“PsA in children is difficult to diagnose for many of the same reasons as in adults,” she said. “One added difficulty is that only one-third of children have psoriasis prior to the onset of arthritis, which can make distinguishing it from other types of juvenile arthritis a bit more challenging.”
Although there is some debate surrounding how JPsA is related to other forms of early-onset arthritis, experts classify it as a form of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), which is an umbrella term for a range of similar conditions.
Terminology aside, JPsA accounts for about 6% to 8% of all JIA cases and is one of the more severe forms. The primary symptoms of JPsA are similar to cases in adults, but there are some differences.
“Adolescents can also get peripheral and axial arthritis, tenderness at tendon insertions (enthesitis), inflammatory bowel disease, and eye inflammation (uveitis),” Weiss said.
“Younger (toddler age) kids with PsA often look a lot more like oligoarticular JIA than adults with PsA. They are less likely to have enthesitis and axial arthritis and are more likely to have chronic uveitis,” she added.
Other symptoms can include:
Speaking about the long-term impact of JPsA, a representative from Bristol Myers Squibb told Medical News Today, “The chronic inflammation of JPsA can cause joint damage, problems with bone growth, and chronic arthritis and disability as the children age.”
Scientists do not yet know the direct causes of this serious condition, but there is a genetic component. About 40% of children with JPsA have a close relative who also develops it.
Current treatment options for JPsA
There is currently no cure for JPsA, but a number of treatments are available. These include:
Also, physical therapy can help maintain and improve joint function, as can regular exercise.
Currently, experts consider TNF-alpha inhibitors the most effective at reducing pain and stiffness and improving quality of life. However, not all children with JPsA benefit from available treatments.
Doctors often switch between drugs to determine which best suits the individual. However, there are relatively few to choose from that are approved for use in children. In addition, many of the existing treatments have significant side effects, which limits their use in the long run.
Abatacept’s expanded use
Abatacept (Orencia), manufactured by Bristol Myers Squibb, is a biologic treatment.
Rather than targeting TNF-alpha or other cytokines, the drug modulates two signals that are necessary to stimulate T cell activation, reducing immune activity.
Doctors prescribe it to treat autoimmune conditions, including adult rheumatoid arthritis and JIA.
Until recently, though, this did not include JPsA. In October 2023, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) expanded its use for children with JPsA over the age of 2 years.
The move comes after long-term studies demonstrated that abatacept was safe and effective for children with JIA who took the medication for 7 years.
The most common side effects were relatively mild and included:
A Bristol Myers Squibb official told Medical News Today:
“The U.S. FDA approval expanding Orencia’s active psoriatic arthritis indication to include pediatric patients 2 years of age and older was an important milestone, providing an additional much-needed treatment option for children living with this condition.”
We asked Weiss how abatacept performs compared with other currently available JPsA treatments:
“There have been no head-to-head studies of abatacept with other biologics for pediatric PsA, so that’s difficult to comment on. Given that there can be recalcitrant skin and/or joint disease in kids, just like in adults, it is enormously helpful to have several approved therapies that target different pathways,” she said.
A new option
Because abatacept seems effective and relatively safe for long-term use, it provides a much-needed additional treatment option for children with JPsA.
“Children living with psoriatic arthritis can experience a number of challenging symptoms including swollen and painful joints,” explained Steven Taylor, the president and chief executive officer of the Arthritis Foundation.
“The FDA’s approval of Orencia for juvenile PsA in patients 2 years of age and older means another treatment option is available to manage this rare chronic disease, which is exciting news for the arthritis community of young patients, their caregivers and healthcare professionals,” he said.
While useful, abatacept is not perfect. Researchers will continue investigating other treatment options for this relatively common and disruptive condition. We asked Weiss whether there were any other treatments on the horizon.
“There are ongoing trials of medications that are approved with promising results in adults with PsA,” she said. “This includes apremilast (an oral medication that blocks PDE-4), guskelkumab and risankizumab (injectable IL-23 blockers), and ixekizumab (injectable IL-17 blocker).”
“All of these medications will be welcome additions to the currently very limited arsenal of medications available to combat this disease in kids,” she concluded.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/heavy-cannabis-use-increases-risk-of-developing-an-anxiety-disorder-study-suggests
Heavy cannabis use increases risk of developing an anxiety disorder, study suggests
Researchers report that emergency room visits for cannabis may be linked to anxiety diagnoses.
They say that men and younger people who used cannabis may be at higher risk for anxiety.
There continues to be debate over whether cannabis causes anxiety or can be used to remedy the condition.
A new study says cannabis may not be so relaxing for everyone.
Researchers report that 27% of people who went to an emergency department for cannabis use developed a new anxiety disorder within three years.
The research team from Canada said their research published in the journal eClinical Medicine is the largest study examining the relationship between anxiety and cannabis use.
The researchers looked at more than 12 million people living in Ontario, Canada, between 2008 and 2019, none of whom had ever received treatment or a diagnosis for anxiety.
The team examined the health record data, comparing the risk of developing an anxiety disorder for those who went to an emergency for cannabis use compared to the general population.
“Our results suggest that individuals requiring emergency department treatment for cannabis use were both at substantially increased risk of developing a new anxiety disorder and experiencing worsening symptoms for already existing anxiety disorders,” said Dr. Daniel Myran, the lead study author and a Canada Research Chair in social accountability at the University of Ottawa, an International Cultural Exchange Services adjunct scientist, an investigator at the Bruyère Research Institute, and a clinician investigator at The Ottawa Hospital, in a statement.
Breaking down the numbers from the cannabis and anxiety study
Researchers said they found that 27% of the individuals who went to an emergency department for cannabis use were diagnosed with a new anxiety disorder within three years, compared to 5% of the general population — a nearly 4-fold increase after accounting for social factors and other mental health diagnoses.
They said of those already diagnosed 12% of people who went to an emergency room for cannabis use were hospitalized or visited an emergency room again for an anxiety disorder within three years, compared to 1% of the general population — another nearly 4-fold increased risk after accounting for other mental health diagnosis and social factors.
In people who visited an emergency room with cannabis as the main reason, the risk of hospitalization or another emergency visit for an anxiety disorder increased by more than 9 fold compared to the general population.
The researchers also reported that women and men and individuals of all ages going to an emergency room for cannabis use were at elevated risk of developing new anxiety disorders relative to the general population, with men and younger adults (10 to 24 years) at particularly elevated risk.
Is cannabis the cause or a treatment for anxiety?
The scientists acknowledged there’s an ongoing debate about whether cannabis actually causes people to develop anxiety or if their cannabis use reflects a condition already there for which they’re medicating.
However, the researchers said their study indicated that cannabis may make anxiety worse. They also said it’s possible cannabis may delay other evidence-based treatments and may substantially worsen anxiety symptoms.
“Cannabis use has rapidly increased in Canada over the past 15 years and there is a general sense that cannabis is relatively harmless or has health benefits,” Myran said. “Our study cautions that in some individuals, heavy cannabis use may increase their risk of developing anxiety disorders.”
Cannabis has different effects on different people
Daniele Piomelli, PhD, the director of the UC Irvine Center for the Study of Cannabis in California who wasn’t involved in the study, told Medical News Today that the effects of cannabis on people has never been a one-size-fits-all proposition.
“Cannabis can have both anti-anxiety and pro-anxiety effects, depending on dose, [and] experience with the drug,” Piomelli said. “We have known about these dual action for a long time. The anti-anxiety effect is rooted in the protective functions of the endocannabinoid system, which is exquisitely involved in coping with stress and curbing anxiety. But we still do not understand how cannabis can cause anxiety in vulnerable individuals.”
Piomelli added that cannabis is, generally, more powerful now.
For example, the THC potency in dried cannabis has increased from an average of 3% in the 1980s to about 15% today.
“One can even find cannabis products (oils, etc.) that contain more than 80% THC,” Piomelli said.
Ashley Murry, the chief clinical officer of Sana Lake Recovery Center in Missouri who wasn’t involved in the study, told Medical News Today the link between anxiety and cannabis is interesting and “requires a delicate approach.”
“Research in this field is varied and has shown benefits as well as drawbacks,” Murry said. “Most people today have used CBD, a compound found in cannabis. Research has shown that CBD can offer anti-anxiety properties and alleviate stress. Many individuals have reported that they feel calmer after consuming cannabis, although the effects vary depending on the type of product and the individual response.”
But adding THC, makes it a different product, Murry noted.
“On the other hand, THC acts as the psychoactive compound in cannabis and can, however, increase anxiety symptoms in individuals as THC can increase the heart rate and induce paranoia,” she said. “If your sole reason for using cannabis is to reduce or manage your anxiety levels, it might lead to dependence and those suffering from pre-existing anxiety disorders may be more susceptible to its adverse effects.”
“I would suggest that before you use cannabis for any reason, it is best to consult with a healthcare professional, especially for those individuals suffering from pre-existing conditions,” she said.
Potential missing factors in an anxiety disorder
Dr. Sherry Yafai, an emergency medicine physician at Saint John’s Physician Partners Urgent Care and Adjunct Assistant Professor at Saint John’s Cancer Institute in California and cannabis specialist, said the study didn’t account for “glaring co-variates in the group, namely, consumption of other drugs and alcohol.”
“We are well aware that the use of and misuse of alcohol, stimulants and opiates – to name a few – can contribute to a variety of health consequences, including anxiety,” Yafai, who wasn’t involved in the study, told Medical News Today. “This article failed to remove these patients from the comparison, likely because they would not have been able to show any effects from cannabis use alone.”
Yafai also said the researchers “missed the fact that 19% of adults have anxiety disorders… with an estimated 31% of adults having an anxiety disorder at some point in their lives.”
Yafai added that anxiety is a common diagnosis to “miss” during an emergency room visit as doctors are usually trying to rule out life threatening issues in that setting. She said that invalidates using the “general population” as a means for comparison.
“It should have been a comparison to… statistics of global anxiety and not all-comers to the [emergency room], which more commonly are presenting for things like stroke, heart attacks, abdominal pain, vomiting and diarrhea, to name a few,” she said.
Yafai also said a formal diagnosis of anxiety requires symptoms for at least six months, meaning people attempting to self-medicate in the study would have been mislabeled.
“Perhaps what this article should be highlighting, is that a presentation to the [emergency department] with cannabis use, might give physicians an opportunity to intervene in a positive way, to help patients with developing anxiety to steer them to better treatment practices,” she said. “Having those discussions, may impact an individual’s life in a more meaningful way.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/how-vegan-and-ketogenic-diet-rapidly-impacts-immune-system
How vegan and ketogenic diets can rapidly impact the immune system
A new study from researchers at the National Institutes of Health in the United States has found significant immune-system responses to ketogenic and vegan diets.
Participants followed both diets for two weeks each. The keto diet was found to prompt responses associated with pathogen-specific immunity developed through regular exposure and vaccines.
The vegan diet elicited responses rooted in innate immunity, the body’s first line of defense against pathogens.
A new study from researchers at the National Institutes of Health has found significant immune-system responses to ketogenic and vegan diets.
By performing “a multiomics approach including multidimensional flow cytometry, transcriptomic, proteomic, metabolomic and metagenomic datasets,” the researchers were able to assess how 20 participants’ bodies responded to two weeks each of the ketogenic and vegan dietary regimes.
The ketogenic diet prompted responses associated with adaptive immunity — pathogen-specific immunity that is developed through regular exposure and vaccines — while the vegan diet elicited responses rooted in innate immunity, which is the body’s first line of defense against pathogens.
There were also significant changes in the microbiomes of the participants, specifically the abundance of the gut bacteria associated with each diet. The ketogenic diets seemed to lead to a reduction in amino acid metabolism within their microbiomes, perhaps as a result of the larger amount of amino acids in that diet.
Keto vs. vegan: How different are the macronutrients?
Each participant was allowed to eat as much as they wanted during the two weeks they were adhering to each diet.
When people were on the vegan diet, which contained about 10% fat and 75% carbohydrates, they consumed fewer calories than their counterparts on the keto diet, which was made of about 76% fat and 10% carbohydrates.
Given the random application of the order of the diets and the diversity of the participants in age, race, gender, ethnicity, and body mass index (BMI), the study’s authors point to how these diets can be consistently applied to the body’s pathways with somewhat predictable results.
“Further exploration of functional trade-offs associated with each diet would be an important line of research,” they write in the study.
Kristin Kirkpatrick, MS, a registered dietician at the Cleveland Clinic Department of Department of Wellness & Preventive Medicine in Ohio and a senior fellow at the Meadows Behavioral Healthcare in Wickenburg, Arizona, told Medical News Today that while these varied diets do show effects on overall health, there is a number of other factors that are at play.
“Both dietary patterns varied in their content of fat, fiber, carbohydrate, and protein composition and each approach had variations of change to immune function,” said Kirkpatrick, who wasn’t involved in the study. “Genetics, and specifically, nutrigenomics may help in determining the correct overall dietary pattern for an individual in addition to factors such as personal, religious, and cultural preferences. There is no one-size-fits-all all approach to diet and even though these two diets may appear to some to have extremes on both ends, there appear to be certain factors of each that are impacting immune function. This was also a small study so larger studies may be warranted to further assess results.”
Keto diet’s effects on the immune system
The ketogenic diet, known as keto, focuses on foods that provide a lot of healthy fats, adequate amounts of protein, and few carbohydrates.
By depleting the body’s sugar reserves and getting more calories from fat than from carbs, the diet works by forcing the body to break down fat for energy. This results in the production of molecules called ketones that the body uses for fuel and can stimulate weight loss.
After undergoing the ketogenic diet, participants in the NIH study were found to have an up-regulation of pathways linked to adaptive immunity, including T cell activation and enrichment of B cells and plasma cells. One of those pathways, oxidative phosphorylation, which is associated with T cell activation and memory formation, was improved after the ketogenic diet compared with the aftereffects of a vegan or baseline diet.
Analysis of participants’ proteomes — the entire set of proteins one organism produces — also indicated that the ketogenic diet may have a bigger impact on protein secretion than a vegan diet, with impacted proteins predicted to originate from several tissues, including the blood, brain, and bone marrow. Both diets affected proteins predicted to originate from the liver and secondary lymphoid organs.
How does the vegan diet affect the immune system?
The vegan diet eliminates all animal products, including meat, eggs, and dairy.
It has been associated with weight loss, improved heart health, and a reduction in the risk of chronic diseases such as cancer and type 2 diabetes. It is heavy on fruits, vegetables, beans, nuts, and seeds.
The study’s authors reported that the vegan diet resulted in a significant up-regulation of the production of red blood cells (erythropoiesis) and heme metabolism. Heme regulates transcription and protein synthesis during erythropoiesis. And the vegan diet resulted in more dietary iron (also important to erythropoiesis) being ingested in the vegan diet than in the ketogenic diet.
Matthew Carter, a doctoral student at the Sonnenberg Lab in the Department of Microbiology and Immunology at Stanford University in California (which recently published the results of a human dietary intervention trial comparing a high-fiber diet to a high-fermented foods diet), told Medical News Today that the vegan diet raised some questions about how it affected the immune system vs the ketogenic protocols.
“The authors do speculate that part of these differences might be caused by differences in caloric intake (vegans consumed fewer calories),” Carter said. “So it’s a little hard to see if there was something in particular in the vegan diet that caused these changes, or if something about eating less caused these changes. There are some interesting studies on fasting that have also shown changes to the innate and adaptive immune systems.”
Kirkpatrick noted that while the study’s findings support how powerful a role diet plays in immune function and microbiome health, the rigors of these particular diets can be difficult.
“Many of my patients have benefited from both vegan dietary patterns as well as keto dietary patterns,” Kirkpatrick said. “However, I have also seen challenges with both in terms of long-term sustainability. For example, few of my patients can remain strict keto over 6 months, and many transition to a low to moderate carb approach.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/regular-exercise-can-help-lower-chronic-kidney-disease-risk-in-people-with-diabetes-and-obesity
Regular exercise can help lower chronic kidney disease risk in people with diabetes and obesity
Researchers say that for people with obesity and other weight issues, moderate to vigorous exercise might help lower the risk of developing chronic kidney disease.
In their study, people who engaged in between 329 and 469 minutes of vigorous exercise per week were found to have a significantly lower risk of progressing to chronic kidney disease.
Experts say that it’s encouraging for people with kidney disease to have an inexpensive way to reduce or prevent the progression of their condition.
Moderate to vigorous physical activity is linked to a lower risk of developing chronic kidney disease in people with type 2 diabetes who also have obesity or other weight issues, according to a study published in the British Journal of Sports Medicine.
Researchers performed a secondary analysis using data from the Look AHEAD trial, a multi-center, randomized controlled trial that compared cardiovascular outcomes of an intensive lifestyle intervention to standard diabetes support and education.
The scientists reviewed the records of 5,145 adults with diabetes who also had weight issues with an average follow-up period of 12 years. During the monitoring period, 567 participants, or about one in three, progressed to chronic kidney disease.
Eight out of 16 trial sites involving 1,746 participants used an activity tracker. These individuals had an average age of 58 and more than one-half were women.
The scientists noted that:
Overall, a higher cumulative weekly average was associated with about an 8% lower risk for every 100 minutes of activity. This increased to 19% if their bouts of activity were at least 10 minutes at a time.
The researchers reported that those who improved their weekly tally by about one hour reduced their risk of developing chronic kidney disease by about 33%.
Participants engaging in between 329 and 469 minutes were significantly less likely to progress to chronic kidney disease than those completing vigorous activity for under 220 minutes.
The scientists did not determine cause and effect as this was an observational study only.
“This study is a secondary analysis of the Look AHEAD study, which was a high-quality, rigorously conducted clinical trial with an observational component that has led to numerous insights into how best to care for people with diabetes to prevent morbidity, disability, and mortality,” said Dr. Babak Orandi, an abdominal transplant surgeon, obesity medicine specialist, and director of NYU Langone Health’s PeriOperative Weight Evaluation and Reduction (POWER) clinic in New York. “This study found that even brief episodes — less than 10 minutes — of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity are associated with a decreased risk of chronic kidney disease.”
“It’s encouraging to have data to confirm what I had thought and hoped was true. Regarding physical activity to prevent serious diseases like chronic kidney disease, more is better than less, and some — even 10 minutes –is better than none,” Orandi, who was not involved in the study, told Medical News Today.
What is chronic kidney disease
Chronic kidney disease is a condition that is caused by damage to the kidney that stops them from properly filtering the blood, causing excess fluid and waste to remain in the body, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The buildup of fluids can cause heart disease, stroke, or other serious medical issues, including:
About 15% of adults in the United States have chronic kidney disease.
Kidney disease usually progresses over time, although treatment can sometimes slow the progression.
Treating chronic kidney disease
“While there are a number of effective but expensive medications that can decrease progression of kidney disease, it is helpful to have data to confirm that a simple and free intervention that requires relatively little time can prevent kidney disease,” Orandi said.
“These findings will be motivating for many people who struggle to fit exercise into their day,” he added. “For many people, the idea of exercise conjures negative images of intimidating gym environments, pain, and discomfort. Moderate-to-vigorous physical activity can be achieved without gym memberships, trainers, classes, or specialized equipment, and can be done in the privacy of one’s own home, even in relatively small spaces.”
The National Kidney Foundation recommends treating and managing the underlying conditions that might have caused the kidney disease, such as diabetes or high blood pressure. For people with these risks it is essential to see a nephrologist on a regular basis.
It is also essential to manage complications, such as taking steps to reduce your risk of cardiovascular disease.
There are several medications to slow the progression of the disease, including ACE Inhibitors, SGLT2 Inhibitors, and non-steroidal mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) such as Kerendia.
For people with chronic kidney disease who are over 50 and have a history of heart disease and diabetes, statins are also sometimes prescribed.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/pcos-linked-cognitive-decline-memory-thinking-problems-middle-age
PCOS may be linked to memory, thinking problems in middle age
Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is a chronic hormonal endocrine disorder that can affect multiple aspects of health.
Previous research shows people with PCOS are at an increased risk for several diseases such as type 2 diabetes, endometrial cancer, and high blood pressure.
Researchers from the University of California, San Francisco have now found that people with PCOS may be at a higher risk of developing memory and thinking problems in middle age.
About 116 million women around the world have polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) — a chronic hormonal endocrine disorder that affects the reproductive system of people assigned female at birth.
Common symptoms of PCOS include irregular or missed periods, acne, enlarged ovaries, excessive body hair, and infertility.
Previous research shows that people with PCOS are at an increased risk for other diseases, including type 2 diabetes, heart disease, obstructive sleep apnea, liver disease, depression, and endometrial cancer.
Now, researchers from the University of California, San Francisco are adding to this list with evidence suggesting people with PCOS may be at a higher risk of developing memory and thinking problems in middle age.
The study was recently published in Neurology, the medical journal of the American Academy of Neurology.
Does PCOS affect brain health?
According to Dr. Heather G. Huddleston, professor in the Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Sciences at the University of California, San Francisco, and lead author of this study, they decided to study the impact of PCOS on brain health because medical professionals already know that PCOS is a disorder defined by differences in reproductive hormones and metabolic health, in particular insulin resistance.
“We also know that hormones and metabolic health can impact brain health, particularly with aging,” Dr. Huddleston told Medical News Today. “Thus, we thought it was important to investigate brain health in older women with PCOS — particularly since no studies had previously been done regarding this question.”
People with PCOS normally have high levels of androgen hormones — such as testosterone — and low levels of progesterone.
Previous research shows androgens can sometimes have neurotoxic effects and progesterone has neuroprotective effects, which may be diminished when levels are too low.
Decreased cognitive test scores in those with PCOS
For this study, Dr. Huddleston and her team recruited 907 female participants who were between the ages of 18 and 30 at the beginning of the study, who were then followed by researchers for 30 years.
At the end of 30 years, all participants were asked to complete tests to measure their memory, verbal learning, cognitive control, processing speed, and attention. At the time of testing, 66 study participants had a PCOS diagnosis.
Researchers found participants with PCOS had lower scores on three of the five tests given, specifically in the areas of memory, attention, and verbal abilities, when compared to those without PCOS.
Specifically for the test measuring attention, scientists reported participants with PCOS had an average score about 11% lower than those without the condition.
“We had a hypothesis that we might find evidence of lower cognitive scores with aging, based on what we already know about various health conditions that can impact the brain,” Dr. Huddleston said. “However, these study participants were relatively young (mid-life), so in some ways, I was still surprised to see the differences that we did.”
Lower white matter integrity in PCOS
To further validate their findings, the research team conducted a smaller study of 291 participants who received MRI brain scans at years 25 and 30 of the larger study. Of this smaller cohort, 25 had PCOS.
Through the MRI scans, scientists were able to examine the integrity of white matter pathways in the brain. White matter helps the brain process information and connects the areas of the brain responsible for learning, balance, focusing, and problem-solving.
Dr. Huddleston and her team found participants with PCOS had lower white matter integrity compared to those who did not.
“White matter integrity on MRI can be an early sign of changes in the brain that can happen with aging,” Dr. Huddleston explained. “We did not find any of the more significant changes, such as abnormal white matter so it is reassuring that only early signs were found.”
“I think it is key that we verify these findings in other populations and/or datasets,” she continued. “I am also very interested in developing a longitudinal study of women with PCOS to determine if and when differences in cognition start to arise. Finally, it would be fascinating to develop a study to look at ways to protect brain health in this population.”
Lifestyle changes to mitigate PCOS risks
As more information linking PCOS and brain health comes to the forefront, it may become increasingly important for doctors to talk with people with PCOS about how it could potentially affect their cognition.
Dr. Huddleston said there are health practices that can protect brain health.
“For example, we know that exercise has important effects on the brain and can protect the brain from accelerated decline with aging,” she detailed. “So, for starters, encouraging physical activity would be an important recommendation.”
“Along these lines, managing cardiovascular risk factors, such as dyslipidemia, hypertension, and diabetes is critical,” Dr. Huddleston added. “These conditions are increased in PCOS but also have a range of very effective treatments. “For these reasons, making sure women with PCOS have access to comprehensive and informed care is critical.
Why PCOS treatment needs a multidimensional approach
MNT also spoke with Dr. Michael Krychman, a board certified OB/GYN and medical director of Women’s Health Services at MemorialCare Saddleback Medical Center in Laguna Hills, CA, about this study.
Dr. Krychman said he was not shocked by this study’s findings.
“PCOS is really associated with a variety of metabolic health conditions like obesity, diabetes, hypertension, (and) heart health issues,” he explained. “There are changes in hormones, including androgens. So the association between PCOS and cognitive decline or memory issues is not very surprising at all.”
When it comes to talking to people with PCOS about its potential impact on their brain health, Dr. Krychman said the whole focus for PCOS really should be on a bio-psycho-social comprehensive treatment paradigm.
“So it’s not only about hormonal balance and hair and acne, but also, I think we will now incorporate primary prevention of cognitive decline into treatment paradigms,” he continued. “And what that may look like is keeping active, limiting alcohol, healthy diet, monitoring cardiometabolic issues, sugar control, (and) cholesterol control.”
“Also, the concept of cognitive enrichment, like playing games, reading a book, memory training — all those things will help enrich your life and may help preserve mental function,” Dr. Krychman added. “The concept of focusing on brain health in a multi-dimensional factor will be really important.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/how-erectile-dysfunction-drugs-may-help-lower-alzheimers-disease-risk
How erectile dysfunction drugs may help lower Alzheimer's disease risk
Researchers are reporting that erectile dysfunction drugs are associated with a lower percentage of Alzheimer’s cases in men.
They say erectile dysfunction drugs increase blood flow, which could help lower the risk of Alzheimer’s disease.
Experts say these drugs also need to be tested in women.
Erectile dysfunction drugs may lower the risk of Alzheimer’s disease in men by increasing a person’s blood flow, according to a study published today in the journal Neurology.
Researchers, however, note that study doesn’t necessarily directly prove that erectile dysfunction drugs reduce the risk of Alzheimer’s. It only says there’s an association.
The researchers point out that erectile dysfunction drugs, which dilate blood vessels to allow for more blood flow, were initially developed to treat high blood pressure. But now researchers say there could be yet another benefit.
“Although we’re making progress with the new treatments for Alzheimer’s disease that work to clear amyloid plaques in the brain for people with early stages of the disease, we desperately need treatments that can prevent or delay the development of Alzheimer’s disease,” said Ruth Brauer, a study author and lecturer at the University College London in the United Kingdom, in a press statement. “These results are encouraging and warrant further research.”
Details from the erectile dysfunction drugs and Alzheimer’s study
The research involved 269,725 male subjects with an average age of 59 who were also recently diagnosed with erectile dysfunction. None had any memory problems or other signs of Alzheimer’s at the beginning of the study.
Researchers followed participants for an average of five years. The study looked at the 55% of subjects with prescriptions for erectile dysfunction drugs and compared them to the 45% of participants who didn’t.
During the follow-up period, 1,119 men developed Alzheimer’s. Among those taking erectile dysfunction drugs, 749 developed Alzheimer’s – a rate of about 8 cases per 10,000 person-years (person-years represent the number of people in the study and the amount of time each one spends participating in the research).
Among those who didn’t take the drugs, 370 developed Alzheimer’s – a rate of more than 9 cases per 10,000 person-years.
Once the research team adjusted for other factors affecting the rate of Alzheimer’s, such as age, alcohol consumption, and whether someone smokes or not, they concluded that men taking erectile dysfunction drugs were 18% less likely to develop Alzheimer’s.
Researchers said the association between erectile dysfunction medications and Alzheimer’s was strongest in men who were prescribed the most medications during the study.
One of the study’s limitations was that the findings were based on prescription records. Researchers couldn’t verify whether subjects actually filled the prescriptions and used the drugs.
“More research is needed to confirm these findings, learn more about the potential benefits and mechanisms of these drugs, and look into the optimal dosage,” Brauer said. “A randomized, controlled trial with both male and female participants is warranted to determine whether these findings would apply to women as well.”
Experts react to Alzheimer’s and ED drugs study
Dr. Clifford Segil, a neurologist at Providence Saint John’s Health Center in California who was not involved in the research, told Medical News Today that potential treatments for Alzheimer’s are not as simple as simply sending more blood through the body.
“When I examine patients with memory loss, the differential includes a condition called vascular dementia or multi-infarct dementia,” Segil said. “Vascular dementia is caused by multiple silent strokes in the brain and poor brain blood flow can cause these strokes. When talking about disrupted flow to the brain, neurologists concentrate on stroke or cerebrovascular accidents.”
Segil said erectile dysfunction drugs work by venous dilation and opening veins increases blood flow.
He noted the drugs are already used for other serious conditions.
“Erectile dysfunction medications are sometimes used by cardiologists to increase blood flow to the heart,” Segil said. “The researchers of this study should do an additional study to determine if vasodilating medications like erectile function have a direct effect on vascular dementia rather than Alzheimer’s dementia.”
More Alzheimer’s treatment research needed
Segil added he’s interested to see how the medication would affect females with Alzheimer’s.
“Memory loss remains a multifactorial condition caused by more than one thing,” Segil said.
Dr. J. Wes Ulm, a medical researcher and bioinformatics expert affiliated with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, told Medical News Today the study raises intriguing questions.
However, he said the onset of Alzheimer’s may differ from one person to another, which may be why drugs that simply increase blood flow haven’t been pursued more aggressively.
“Other findings have also pointed in a similar direction, (such as) the demonstrated value of smoking cessation and regular exercise in helping to ward off dementia, as well as of certain cognitive activities and forms of engagement — particularly foreign language learning, and possibly also undertakings like crossword puzzles or sudoku — that are likewise associated with improvements in cerebral blood flow to important brain regions,” Ulm said.
“There are other major factors, and it’s still unclear precisely how the molecular findings like senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles are associated with the onset of dementia — to what extent they’re a cause vs. a correlating effect of something else,” he added.
Cardiovascular health and Alzheimer’s disease
Dr. Tommy Wood, an assistant professor of pediatrics and neuroscience at the University of Washington who also wasn’t involved in the study, told Medical News Today that cardiovascular risk factors are strongly associated with Alzheimer’s and dementia risk.
“Because of that, therapies that improve blood flow to the brain – ensuring oxygen and nutrients are getting to the active parts of the brain when they’re needed – may well provide a basis for future therapies in the prevention or treatment of those with dementia,” Wood said.
Even without taking medication for erectile dysfunction, there are ways to improve one’s odds against Alzheimer’s by getting more blood to the brain.
“Similarly, we know that physical activity is strongly protective against dementia and one major reason for that is that it supports vascular health and blood flow to the brain,” Wood said. “So, the premise described is certainly plausible.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/mobocertinib-withdrawal-what-it-means-for-people-with-egfr-lung-cancer
Mobocertinib withdrawal: What it means for people with EGFR+ lung cancer
EGFR+ lung cancer is a type of lung cancer, not linked to smoking, that is caused by one of a number of nonhereditary gene mutations.
One mutation, exon 20, had no effective treatments beyond chemotherapy until a tyrosine kinase inhibitor called Mobocertinib (marketed as Exkivity) was licensed in 2021.
However, the manufacturers withdrew it from use in the United States late last year, and health authorities in the United Kingdom plan to follow suit next month.
EGFR+ campaigners are concerned that people in the United Kingdom with this mutation will now have no treatment options to extend life after chemotherapy.
Even though, according to the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 80–90% of lung cancer cases are linked to smoking, a significant number of lung cancers are not smoking-related.
Most of these are non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLC), caused by mutations of the epidermal growth factor receptor, termed EGFR+ lung cancers.
These cancers often present in younger people and have atypical symptoms, such as shoulder pain, or other musculoskeletal symptoms, rather than the coughing, breathlessness and recurrent chest infections that are usually seen in smoking-related lung cancers.
Several different nonhereditary mutations can lead to EGFR+ lung cancer. The most common are EGFR 19 deletion — where part of the gene is missing — and EGFR L858R point mutation, in which one nucleotide (small unit of DNA) is altered.
Why mobocertinib is important for people with lung cancer
The exon 20 insertion mutation is the third most common cause of EGFR+ lung cancer, being responsible for up to 10% of cases. People with this mutation generally have a poorer prognosis than people with different mutations.
Apart from platinum-based chemotherapy, there were no effective treatments for exon 20 available in the United Kingdom, as the tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) used to treat other EGFR+ mutations do not work against exon 20.
However, in 2021, a new TKI, mobocertinib (Exkivity), received accelerated approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations. The oral therapy was approved for use in the U.K. in November 2022.
Prof. Siow Ming Lee, professor of medical oncology at University College London, and consultant medical oncologist at University College London Hospitals (UCLH) told Medical News Today:
“NSCLC patients with the uncommon EGFR+ exon 20 insertion mutations have an unmet need. […] Mobocertinib is a first-in-class, oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) specifically designed to selectively target the uncommon epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) Exon20 insertion mutations.”
Global withdrawal of mobocertinib: What it means
Dr. Gini Harrison, psychologist and research trustee at EGFR+ UK, and EGFR+ survivor, also emphasized how withdrawing mobocertinib from use would severely impact people who rely on it the most.
She explained:
“Mobocertinib is currently the only drug in the U.K. that is licensed for use with this patient group in an NHS [National Health Service] setting. Removing this drug from the market will mean that these patients have no treatment options beyond chemotherapy, which will certainly reduce lifespans and increase mortality rates.”
In early clinical trials, mobocertinib was well tolerated by patients, stopped their cancer from worsening, and increased their survival time, leading to optimism about its potential for people with the exon 20 mutation.
However, in October 2023, the manufacturer, Takeda, voluntarily withdrew Mobocertinib from use in the United States.
In phase 3 clinical trials, the drug failed to show a significant effect on progression-free survival (PFS). During the trial, 17% of participants stopped the treatment, half of the patients had to take a break in treatment, and 25% needed the dose reduced because of side effects, although there were no significant safety concerns.
Takeda said in a press release that it was withdrawing the drug because “the Phase 3 EXCLAIM-2 confirmatory trial, […] did not meet its primary endpoint and thus did not fulfil the confirmatory data requirements of the Accelerated Approval granted by the U.S. FDA nor the conditional marketing approvals granted in other countries.”
However, Prof. Lee explained that the trial had its own shortcomings.
“It is unfortunate that when Takeda designed the first-line trial, the investigator did not include a separate trial arm combining Mobocertinib with chemotherapy,“ he told us.
“Instead, they tested a mobocertinib monotherapy arm against standard chemotherapy, despite knowing that the best ORR [tumor objective response rate] achieved as a second line was approximately 30% in pre-treated NSCLC patients,” Prof. Lee noted.
How will lung cancer patients in the UK be affected?
And if health authorities do withdraw this drug from use in the U.K.? Prof. Lee warned:
“Patients relapsing after first-line platinum chemotherapy will no longer be able to access the drug after the official withdrawal of the conditional marketing authorization for mobocertinib, which will occur in March 2024.”
Dr. Harrison also expressed her frustration to MNT, saying that “[t]he withdrawal of Mobocertinib is purely based on the fact that the drug failed to meet its clinical endpoint in a recent clinical trial.“
”It is not being withdrawn due to safety concerns, and indeed, no new safety concerns have arisen since the drug received its initial licence,” she emphasized.
“Instead,” Dr. Harrison explained, “the drug is being withdrawn because it was licensed on the proviso that a positive result was achieved in an RCT [randomised control trial], showing it to be more efficacious than chemotherapy in a first line setting.”
”The recent RCT (EXCLAIM-2) [trial] showed this was not achieved; however, [the drug] was shown to be as effective as chemotherapy in this setting. Given the effectiveness is on par with a licensed, effective treatment, withdrawing the drug entirely seems both unnecessary and harmful to patients,” she added.
Although mobocertinib will not be available for new patients going forward, Prof. Lee gave some reassurance to those already taking the medication.
“Patients initiated on treatment with mobocertinib before its withdrawal will still be able to access the drug through a compassionate use programme free of charge as long as they are deriving clinical benefit from the medication,” he said.
Call for alternative treatment to be made available in UK
There are alternatives to Mobocertinib in the U.S., but it is the only treatment funded by the National Health Service (NHS) for exon 20 patients in the U.K.
One other drug licensed for use in the U.K. that has shown potential for exon 20 — aminvantamab — is available only privately, so cannot be accessed by those without private insurance or other means of funding, as Dr. Harrison explained.
“Amivantamab is an efficacious drug that is used in standard practice for exon 20 patients in Europe and the USA. It is actually approved for private use by the MHRA in the U.K., but is not currently licensed by NICE. While NICE recognises Amivantamab is likely to be efficacious for exon 20, they deem it too expensive to offer it on the NHS.”
– Dr. Gini Harrison
She called for the drug to be made available to NHS patients: “[r]ecent randomised controlled trials have shown that amivantamab is likely to be a very efficacious alternative to mobocertinib.”
“Given that this drug is already available privately in the U.K., we suggest that there should be a way to expedite NICE approval processes in situations where the withdrawal of a drug from the market leaves a treatment gap and an unmet need for patients,” she added.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/ovarian-tissue-freezing-help-delay-prevent-menopause
Ovarian tissue freezing may help delay, and even prevent menopause
Menopause describes the point in life when the last menstrual cycle occurs, which happens around the age of 50 in women
Ovarian reserve depletes in the years, and decades, before menopause occurs.
Many welcome the end to periods and worries about unwanted pregnancy, but menopause, and the perimenopause before it, is often accompanied by troubling symptoms such as hot flashes, cognitive problems, night sweats, vaginal dryness, anxiety, and a reduced sex drive.
Now, researchers may have found a way to delay, and perhaps even prevent, menopause.
A modeling study suggests that by removing, freezing, and then reimplanting ovarian tissue, the fertile years can be extended long beyond the normal age of menopause.
Menopause, which for most women happens between the ages of 40 and 58, signals the end of the reproductive years. Although the end of monthly periods and worries about birth control is often welcome, many people will experience a less welcome range of physical and mental symptoms.
These symptoms, which may include hot flashes, night sweats, vaginal dryness, anxiety, and a reduced sex drive, can start long before menopause and continue for several years afterward. So, could a treatment that delays, or even prevents, menopause be beneficial?
Researchers at Yale School of Medicine believe that it would and may have found a way to do it. They suggest that by freezing ovarian tissue taken from a woman during her reproductive years and then reimplanting it at a later stage, they could delay, or even prevent menopause.
The mathematical modeling study is published in theAmerican Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology.
“This is very interesting data on the forefront of science-cryopreservation of the ovaries — especially useful for people undergoing chemotherapy and/radiation for cancer treatment. These techniques can protect and preserve the ovarian tissue for reimplantation. The modeling, predicting how long menopause can be delayed is interesting but not currently useful in practice.”— Dr Robin Noble, chief medical officer at Let’s Talk Menopause, speaking to Medical News Today.
Ovarian tissue transplants
Ovarian transplant has been used to help restore fertility following cancer treatments that can damage the egg reserve in the ovaries. Surgeons remove ovarian cortex tissue before the cancer treatment, freeze (or cryopreserve) it, then implant it back into the person after cancer treatment is successfully completed.
Ovarian cortex is the outer part of the ovary, where most of the follicles — the structures that mature each month to release an egg at ovulation — are found. For freezing and transplant, the cortex can be from a donor or from the person undergoing the treatment.
Now, scientists led by Prof. Kutluk Oktay, M.D., Ph.D., have suggested that the technique could be used to preserve fertility and prevent troubling symptoms by delaying or even preventing menopause.
The researchers used data from previous studies of ovarian reserve at different ages, and on how ovarian follicles behave in ovarian tissue. From this, they created a mathematical model that predicts how long ovarian transplant surgery might delay menopause in healthy women.
They incorporated several factors, including age and follicle survival, in their model to see how long different factors might delay the time of menopause.
How effective is ovarian transplanting?
The model predicted that for most women ages 40 and under, ovarian tissue cryopreservation and transplant would significantly delay menopause.
The success of the transplant depended on four factors:
Tissue harvested after the age of 40 years did not delay menopause onset as there were too few viable follicles left in the tissue of the typical donor.
“The younger the person, the larger number of eggs she has, as well as the higher the quality of those eggs,” Prof. Oktay said. The amount of tissue harvested was key — too little and menopause would not be delayed, but if too much was taken, this might bring on an early menopause. However, the model accounted for this: “This model gives us the optimum amount of tissue to harvest for a person of a given age,” he added.
To illustrate their model, the researchers give the example of a 25-year-old who had 25% of her ovarian cortex tissue harvested, and then transplanted in one procedure. If 40% of the follicles survived, this might delay menopause by almost 12 years; if 80% survived, the delay would be around 15.5 years. Authors noted that currently, ovarian transplant procedures are associated with a 60% loss of follices and that 80% survival could only be achieved if technology and techniques progressed in coming years.
However, if they divided up the tissue and transplanted it in several procedures, menopause delay was increased. At 40% follicle survival, three transplants extended the delay to 23 years, and six transplants to 31 years. If 80% of follicles survived, the model predicted that menopause might be delayed by as much as 47 years, which, for most women, would mean that they would never experience menopause.
Should menopause be delayed?
“If we can adequately replace the hormones (that should continue to improve with more research into this area), would we want to delay the time of natural menopause? Many women struggle with issues during their reproductive years — PCOS, endometriosis, fibroids, painful periods, heavy periods, undesired fertility, premenstrual dysphoric disorder — would they want to prolong their cycles? I think not. Would they want to delay or avoid the symptoms of menopause — very likely. And we can do that with menopausal hormone therapy (MHT) without exacerbating those other symptoms.”— Dr. Robin Noble
Menopause is considered a normal part of human aging, not an illness or medical condition, so should it be delayed? Many women welcome the end of their monthly periods, particularly those with menstrual disorders, and many cope with the symptoms of menopause without intervention. For many that do require support, hormone therapy is often effective.
However, for others, perimenopause and menopause may mean several years of troubling symptoms that can affect their quality of life. As we live longer, many women will spend around one-third of their lives postmenopausal, so they may wish to shorten that time.
Apart from delaying symptoms, studies have shown that there may be other benefits to later menopause. Those who experience a later menopause have lower all-cause mortality, reduced risk of osteoporosis, and a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease. However, they do have an increased risk of breast, endometrial, and ovarian cancers.
“Do we need cryopreserved ovaries to accomplish these goals?” Dr. Noble questioned.
“With MHT, we can give back some of these hormones at various doses, with the option of tailoring to the symptoms and goals of the person, understanding the risks and benefits of various treatment options. Moreover, MHT avoids the cyclic symptoms (often bothersome bleeding, mood changes, bloating, breast tenderness, cyclic migraines) that would be present in the case of preserved ovaries,” she explained.
But the option of surgery to remove and then replace cryopreserved ovarian tissue should not be taken lightly, as it does involve repeated abdominal or keyhole (laparoscopic) surgery. So, a woman would need to think carefully about whether, for her, the benefits of delaying menopause outweigh the risks.
Dr. Noble is not convinced that the technique offers many benefits:
“Menopause is a natural stage of life. It is not a disease. It is not an illness anymore than aging is an illness. After menopause, we see significantly increased risks for cardiovascular disease, bone loss (osteoporosis), diabetes, obesity, colon cancer risks, which seem to be mitigated with MHT.”
“People need better information about the options for management of this stage of life so they can be empowered by the latest research to make the best decisions for themselves, as there are many treatment options available for the symptoms of menopause,” she added.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/pregnant-people-young-children-received-wrong-rsv-vaccine-error-cdc
RSV vaccine errors in babies, pregnant people: Should you be worried?
The CDC recently issued an emergency alert to clinicians reporting some pregnant people and young children received the wrong RSV vaccine.
Vaccine errors are rare, and no adverse events were reported in this instance.
Experts say confusion around the recent rollout of three different immunizations to protect against RSV may have led to the errors.
Currently, two RSV vaccines are approved for use in older adults, with one of these also approved for use in pregnant people
A third monoclonal antibody treatment is recommended for use in infants up to 8 months to protect against severe illness.
Vaccine administration errors are uncommon but may occasionally occur.
When a trio of immunizations to protect high-risk groups against respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) rolled out last fall, confusion surrounding the vaccines ensued among patients and even clinicians alike.
A recent emergency alert released by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports that RSV shots were wrongfully administered to a small number of pregnant people and young children. As of January 17, 2024, the alert states that 128 pregnant people received the wrong RSV shot, and 25 children under 2 received an RSV vaccine approved for use in adults only.
While any number of vaccine errors may seem alarming, the CDC notes the errors are “relative to an estimated 1 million infants protected from RSV either through infant receipt of nirsevimab or through vaccination of pregnant people.”
Young children, pregnant people, and older adults are considered most at risk for severe illness from RSV, a respiratory virus resembling the common cold. Most people recover from RSV in 7–14 days, but some high-risk cases may become serious, leading to difficulty breathing and requiring hospitalization.
Abrysvo (Pfizer) and Arexvy (GSK) are both approved for use in adults over 60. However, only Abrysvo is approved for use in pregnant people.
Currently, there is no RSV vaccine available to younger children. A monoclonal antibody treatment, niresevimab, also known as Beyfortus, (Sanofi and AstraZeneca), is administered to newborns up to 8 months when they are most susceptible to complications from the virus.
In addition, pregnant people who receive the maternal Abrysvo vaccine may pass antibodies to a developing fetus, which may protect a newborn from severe illness after birth.
Clinicians who administered the wrong RSV vaccines reported them to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS). The vaccine errors did not lead to adverse events, but the CDC and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will continue to monitor the situation.
If you or your child received the wrong RSV vaccine or you are concerned about getting the right one, here’s what you need to know to stay safe.
Why did some people receive the wrong RSV shot?
Lack of clarity around the three different RSV immunizations may have caused some clinicians to mistakenly administer the wrong shot.
“New vaccines and treatments can sometimes lead to confusion, especially in busy healthcare settings,” Dr. Daniel Ganjian, board certified pediatrician at Providence Saint John’s Health Center in Santa Monica, CA, told Medical News Today.
To add to any confusion surrounding the rollout of three different RSV immunizations, Dr. Ganjian noted the RSV shots have similar names — Abrysvo and Arexvy — which may have contributed to the mixups.
Dr. Patricia Faraz, board certified OB-GYN at The Women’s Hospital at MemorialCare Saddleback Medical Center in Laguna Hills, CA, told MNT that such vaccine errors could be reduced by clinicians if proper systems were put into place. For instance, the patient order and vaccine could be verified by more than one staff member.
“Medications for OB patients should not be stored in the same refrigerator as non-OB patients to reduce errors as staff members may not be familiar with these new vaccines, and they are named similarly,” Dr. Faraz suggested.
Should you be worried if you got the wrong RSV vaccine?
If you received a vaccine in error, you should notify your healthcare team and report any adverse events to VAERS, which helps public health officials identify and address potential issues with vaccines, Dr. Ganjian explained.
If you’re concerned your child may have received a vaccine intended for adults, try to stay calm. You should contact their pediatrician who “can review your child’s records and confirm if they received the correct vaccine. If not, they will advise you on the next steps,” Dr. Ganjian noted.
If a vaccine reaction were to occur, symptoms should generally subside within 48 hours. If symptoms persist, contact your doctor right away. “Serious adverse events are very rare in these situations,” Dr. Ganjian said.
No serious reactions were reported among pregnant people and children who received the wrong shot.
RSV vaccines are considered safe and effective when used as intended. No adverse events were reported during clinical trials of the RSV vaccines for pregnant people and older adults. Beyfortus, the antibody treatment for young children, is also considered safe and effective.
However, any risks of adverse events from receiving the wrong RSV shot are not yet known.
“Unfortunately, these vaccines are brand new, and adverse events in pregnant women are not known with Arexvy,” Dr. Faraz said.
“Over time, adverse events may be reported, and then we will have a better idea regarding potential side effects or efficacy rates of the Arexvy, which is indicated for individuals over 60,” she explained.
The two RSV vaccines and the monoclonal antibody treatment for young children are not interchangeable. They should be used only in the high-risk groups for which they are approved.
While no serious adverse events were reported from this vaccine error, any unusual symptoms after vaccination should be relayed to your doctor.
According to Dr. Ganjian, symptoms of adverse reactions may include:
Tips to ensure you get the right RSV vaccine
To ensure you or your child receive the correct RSV vaccine, experts say it’s important to ask your doctor questions and get information from reliable sources.
Federal agencies like the CDC can also provide you with the most accurate and up-to-date information about RSV vaccines and treatments.
Dr. Ganjian recommended asking your doctor or vaccine technician for the exact name of the vaccine you’re wanting to receive.
“For example, if you have a baby, tell your doctor you want nirsevimab. If you are pregnant, ask for [Abrysvo],” he said.
“Don’t hesitate to ask your healthcare provider about the vaccine or treatment you’re receiving. Make sure you understand what it is and why you’re getting it. If you have any concerns, double-check the information with your provider or pharmacist before receiving the vaccine.”
— Dr. Ganjian, pediatrician

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/atlantic-diet-may-help-prevent-metabolic-syndrome
Atlantic diet may help prevent metabolic syndrome
The Atlantic diet is a diet that is popular in some regions of Portugal and Spain, and it is similar to the Mediterranean diet. It focuses on consuming fresh and local foods that are minimally processed.
An area of research interest is how this traditional diet can improve health and how it may impact the environment.
A study found that consuming the Atlantic diet may help reduce metabolic syndrome risk. However, the results did not find that the diet significantly helped reduce carbon footprint emissions.
Research is ongoing about how diets influence people’s well-being and how they affect risk for various health problems.
Research also continues to expand regarding how different diets impact the environment. Ideally, dietary patterns can help people achieve health goals while reducing carbon dioxide emissions when possible.
A study published in JAMA Network Open looked at how the Atlantic diet influenced metabolic syndrome among participants and dietary carbon footprint emissions.
Among the 574 participants, researchers found that those following the Atlantic diet significantly reduced their risk for metabolic syndrome.
However, the Atlantic diet and the control group experienced about the same reduction in carbon footprint scores. Based on the study’s limitations, more research is required with a larger sample size to see the impact of the Atlantic diet on the environment.
Does the Atlantic diet influence metabolic health?
As noted by the authors of this study, the Atlantic diet is a traditional diet popular in northwestern Spain and Portugal.
Registered dietitian nutritionist Karen Z. Berg, not involved in the current study, explained to Medical News Today:
“You don’t often hear about the Atlantic diet, but it’s the traditional diet of Northwestern Spain and Portugal. It’s very similar to the Mediterranean diet because it focuses mainly on locally sourced fresh, minimally processed fruits, vegetables, whole grains, beans and olive oil. It also incorporates a lot of fish and seafood consumption, cheese, milk, meat and wine. The food is generally cooked via simple methods like grilling, baking or stewing.”
Metabolic syndrome is a cluster of health factors that can increase the risk of stroke and diabetes. People with metabolic syndrome usually have three or more of the following:
Diet and other lifestyle changes can influence metabolic syndrome factors and thus impact the risk for even more severe health conditions. Researchers of this particular study wanted to see how the Atlantic diet affected metabolic syndrome risk.
Atlantic diet may prevent metabolic syndrome
This study involved a secondary analysis of another study: the Galicia Atlantic Diet study. The research included adults between the ages of 18 and 85.
Prospective participants were disqualified from taking part if they were pregnant, on medication to lower lipids, misused alcohol, had a terminal disease, had major cardiovascular diseases, or had dementia.
Participants also had to be part of a family unit of two or more members in order to get involved in the study.
Families were randomized into either the intervention group or the control group. Overall, 121 families in the intervention group and 110 in the control group completed the study.
The groups were similar when it came to baseline characteristics. However, the intervention group was older.
Berg noted: “It’s interesting that the clinical trial discussed looked at whole families and not just individuals. The support of family is huge when making lifestyle changes, so the fact that they could do it as a family unit likely made it easier to comply with all aspects of the diet.”
The intervention group followed the Atlantic diet, and the control group followed their normal lifestyle pattern. The intervention group received nutrition education, a cooking class, and regular food baskets to help them follow the Atlantic diet.
Researchers of the current analysis were then able to calculate participants’ carbon footprints related to their diets. A person’s carbon footprint involves the amount of carbon dioxide they emit into the air.
The results found that the intervention group experienced the most improvement in terms of metabolic syndrome. Among the participants who did not have metabolic syndrome, only 2.7% in the intervention group developed metabolic syndrome, compared to 7.3% in the control group.
They also found that the intervention group was 42% less likely to develop an additional component of metabolic syndrome than the control group.
Berg commented that:
“The study found that the intervention group had less risk of developing metabolic syndrome after 6 months on the Atlantic Diet. Also, people who already had metabolic syndrome at the start of the trial were significantly less likely to exhibit an additional component of metabolic syndrome. That is an important thing to note because when people have metabolic syndrome, it is imperative to stop or slow the progression of disease.”
Environmental impact of the Atlantic diet
Overall, both groups also experienced reductions in carbon emissions, but the difference between the two groups was not statistically significant.
Researchers did find that the variability of the carbon footprints among participants was related to family membership, indicating that families can influence personal changes to food carbon emissions.
The lack of statistical significance could be related to the small sample size. Study author Dr. Mar Calvo-Malvar, a specialist in Laboratory Medicine at the University Clinical Hospital of Santiago de Compostela, Spain, explained to MNT:
“The food consumption recorded in the intervention group showed a reduction in carbon footprint of 0.17 kg CO2-eq [kilogram carbon dioxide equivalent] per person per day compared to the consumption recorded in participants in the control group, although this difference did not reach statistical significance.”
“However,” she added, it should be noted that the lack of statistical significance could be attributed to the study’s limited statistical power to measure environmental parameters. The study was initially designed to assess metabolic changes in participants. To achieve statistical significance, approximately 2,000 participants would be required.”
Study limitations and continued research
This study did have certain limitations that warrant consideration. Since this study was a secondary analysis of a previous study, the results face similar limitations. For example, it relied on participant reporting.
The research focused on a specific group of people in a particular region. Future studies could focus on more diversity, as all participants were white.
However, the group had overall moderate socioeconomic and educational levels, making it more possible to generalize the results.
The study was observational and thus cannot prove that following the Atlantic diet prevents metabolic syndrome.
Researchers note that the intervention was complex, so they cannot precisely determine which actions contributed to the observed results. It is possible there were some aspects that researchers did not measure, as well as unknown factors at play.
There was media attention for the study, so some participants may have changed their lifestyles because of this. Since participants did receive food baskets, it is harder to generalize the findings to groups struggling with food access.
The study also only ran for 6 months, which might not have been enough time to properly examine metabolic changes. The observed environmental results might have been impacted by the diversity of food items in participant data and the immense variety in carbon footprint emissions that the life cycle assessment of food products typically reports.
When looking at the carbon footprint, the results were not statistically significant between the intervention and the control, but this could be related to the small sample size. Larger studies may be able to see a reduction in carbon emissions related to the Atlantic diet.
Dr. Calvo-Malvar noted:
“I believe our findings provide significant evidence regarding the potential of traditional diets to accelerate progress toward achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, especially on SDG 13 (health and climate action). We intend to continue studying the effects of the traditional Atlantic diet in broader populations and in different economic contexts. Additionally, we are exploring ways to promote the adoption of this diet as a strategy to improve public health and address environmental challenges.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/how-exactly-does-a-healthy-lifestyle-help-prevent-dementia
How exactly does a healthy lifestyle help prevent dementia?
The best way to promote long-term cognitive health is by living a healthy lifestyle, according to a new study.
The study, which examined, post mortem, brains of people up to the age of 90, found that most cases of dementia were linked to unhealthy lifestyles.
Only 12% of cases were associated with amyloid plaques, long considered a cause of Alzheimer’s disease.
Experts explain that the health of the brain is closely related to the health of the heart, as mini-strokes are often the drivers of non-Alzheimer’s dementia.
A new study offers fresh evidence that living a healthy lifestyle may help a person maintain their cognitive reserve, reducing their chances of developing dementia later in life.
The study involved 586 brain autopsies of people who had a mean age of 90.9 years at the time of death, and found that their lifestyle habits were more clearly linked to their chances of getting dementia than were amyloid plaques or abnormal blood flow in their brains.
For many years, the presence of beta-amyloid plaques, tau tangles, or other dementia-related brain pathologies in the brain post mortem have been associated with dementias — especially Alzheimer’s disease.
However, recent research, including this new study, has found that the presence of these features frequently occurs in people who do not have dementia.
Participants in this study had registered with RUSH University’s Memory and Aging Project. Individuals self-reported their lifestyle habits. They were asked whether they smoked, engaged in at least 150 minutes of physical activity each week, and limited their alcohol consumption.
The healthiest 40% of participants were considered low risk or “healthy.” This corresponded to a Mediterranean-MIND diet score of 7.5 or above and late-life cognitive health score higher than 3.2.
The researchers estimated that just 12% of cognition-related measurements were affected by amyloid plaques.
The study is published in JAMA Neurology.
The link between healthy lifestyles and cognitive health
The study’s first author, Dr. Klodian Dhana, of the Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine at Rush University, summed up its main finding for Medical News Today:
“We may hypothesize that lifestyle factors, especially diet and physical activity, may have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, cognitive activities may contribute directly to ‘cognitive reserve,’ and all together contribute to cognition.”
Physician, educator, and molecular biologist Dr. Allison Reiss, Assistant Professor at New York University’s Department of Medicine, who was not involved in the study, explained what “cognitive reserve means.“
“Cognitive reserve is the fuel in the tank of our brain that is built up by using the brain productively to think, absorb ideas and be active in life and with our social network,” she said. “It keeps us sharp and engaged, and gives us resilience and the ability to use our brains flexibly to face new challenges and to be lifelong learners.”
Dr. Reiss added that a healthy lifestyle keeps the brain nourished with nutrients and oxygen, and promotes an environment “where the brain can flourish and function at its best.”
The heart health–brain health connection
Dr. Clifford Segil, neurologist at Providence Saint John’s Health Center in Santa Monica, CA, also not involved in the study, said that although much emphasis is placed upon Alzheimer’s dementia, there is another type of dementia called vascular — or multi-infarct — dementia, which is caused by small, even imperceptible, strokes.
“So if people have silent strokes,” said Dr. Segil, “they get vascular dementia or multi-infarct dementia. It’s clinically seen by people just getting slow.”
He said there is a direct correlation between the number of silent strokes a person has had and their cognitive ability.
“Many patients with diabetes, hypertension, and heart disease that come see me with memory loss from vascular dementia [end up in this situation] because their brain is unhealthy, since their heart is unhealthy,” said Dr. Segil.
How helpful are post-mortem investigations?
There is some controversy regarding the value of autopsy investigations for dementia.
“I think our reliance on these post-mortem data has got us into trouble,” Dr. Segil said.
“I think it’s a problem because a lot of the current theory has been done with investigative data on post-mortem studies with amyloid [plaques].” Even with this concern, however, Dr. Segil still considered that autopsies generally remain worthwhile.
“Knowing the pathology in the human brain is absolutely critical to understanding the disease processes that affect cognitive function,” Dr. Reiss also said.
She expressed her gratitude to the now-deceased study participants, noting that “[t]he microscopic images from these participants give us a historical record back to the 1990s, and captured information from which generations going forward will benefit.“
“Their generosity and willingness to enroll cannot be appreciated enough,” said Dr. Reiss.
Dr. Dhana stressed that autopsy data is “very important” in Alzheimer’s research.
Going beyond beta-amyloid in dementia research
Although “[a] healthy lifestyle was associated with less amyloid load in the brain at autopsy,” said Dr. Dhana, “most of the association with cognition proximate to death was not thorough Alzheimer’s disease pathology, highlighting the multifactorial and complexity of the disease.”
Dr. Reiss said that looking for simple answers underestimates the complicated ways in which body systems interact.
She cited as an example X-rays of two people who have similar degenerative changes that might indicate arthritis in their joints, and yet one person is in terrible pain while the other is pain-free and living with full function.
“We also knew this years ago in relation to amyloid,” said Dr. Reiss. “Many older people have amyloid in the brain on imaging and they are cognitively sharp. There are so many factors that impact the human brain, and we are just beginning to understand.”
In terms of blood vessel damage in the brain, Dr. Reiss added that if deterioration occurs slowly, the brain’s plasticity may compensate for it. “We can counteract a lot of adverse conditions with the many backup systems we have built into our miraculous nervous system,” she said.
“The study sends a positive message that pathology is not destiny, and we can control more than we might think with respect to our mental functioning,” according to Dr. Reiss.
Healthy lifestyle keeps the brain healthy
“Research has shown,” said Dr. Dhana, “that cognitive activities are important for brain health, particularly when accompanied by a high-quality diet and regular exercise. Individuals should consult their doctor about preventive measures, tailoring each lifestyle factor to their individual needs.”
Dr. Reiss added to that list social engagement with friends in person or even online, not smoking, not drinking to excess, controlling your blood sugar if you have diabetes, getting adequate sleep, as well as sufficient sunlight and vitamin D.
Dr. Segil suggested specifically that “people take classes at their junior college or online classes in a subject that they have not taken before. I think structure and new classes exercising your brain is cognitively protective.”
“As I say, if you don’t use it, you lose it,” noted Dr. Segil.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/psychedelics-psilocybin-lsd-help-improve-sexual-function
Psychedelics such as psilocybin or LSD may help improve sexual function
A new study showed people who took psychedelics reported a greater enjoyment of sex, arousal, satisfaction, and attraction to their partner as well as their own attractiveness and connection.
While psychedelics can decrease inhibitions and make one feel more at ease during sex, there can be harmful health consequences, and mood-altering substances can affect everyone differently.
Experts explain there could be issues with violating boundaries and impaired judgment while high could result in getting sexually involved with someone whom they otherwise might view as a poor choice.
To improve sexual function without drugs or psychedelics, self-reflection and therapy, in some cases, could be helpful.
Whether it’s boosting libido, improving performance or increasing satisfaction, sexual function is an aspect of health that affects many people.
According to a new study, people who used psychedelics reported an increased enjoyment of sex, arousal, satisfaction, attraction to their partner, their own attractiveness, and their ability to connect.
The findings were published in the journal Scientific Reports.
Researchers provided nearly 300 participants with a questionnaire to report their experiences before and after using psychedelics. They looked at replies from two groups — participants who took psychedelics for recreational reasons and another smaller group from a clinical trial examining psilocybin (the psychoactive compound in magic mushrooms) for depression – in relation to how these psychedelics impacted sexual functioning.
On average, results showed improvements among various components of sexual function up to six months after using psychedelics.
“This is a very interesting paper which raises a topic that deserves more study,” said Dr. David Hellerstein, professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia’s Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, who was not involved in the study.
“It’s worth pointing out that the paper contains data from 2 studies: 1) a survey of people who were planning to take psychedelics such as psilocybin or LSD; and 2) a small clinical trial of people with depression who were randomly assigned to take psilocybin or an SSRI antidepressant (escitalopram),” he told Medical News Today.
Risk of bias with psychedelics
The first survey was based on self-report and included people without a diagnosed psychiatric disorder. There were no formal diagnoses or assessments by trained professional staff, Dr. Hellerstein explained.
The second trial included some people who had been taken off SSRI medicines before taking psilocybin, but compared the self-reported sexual functioning among people receiving either psilocybin or escitalopram for major depression.
“The results reported in this paper are intriguing but need to be taken with a grain of salt for these and other reasons,” Dr. Hellerstein stated.
“For instance, the people taking psychedelics presumably knew what drug they were taking and there was no comparison group treated with placebo. So their expectations that psychedelics would improve sex could account for the findings described,” he told Medical News Today.
Furthermore, “In the second study comparing two treatments for major depression, it is known that SSRI medications can decrease sexual desire and functioning, so the difference found might not be a result of psilocybin treatment itself but might be only in comparison to a drug that is well known to have some sexual side effects. They could be a result of depression itself improving, not specifically a result of psilocybin. Findings, however intriguing, need to be replicated in other studies in order to be deemed as valid,” Dr. Hellerstein added.
How psychedelics can impact sexual functioning
Sexual activity affects us physically and emotionally.
“While we understand the physical part, we tend to overlook or downplay the emotional aspect of sexual activity,” said Dr. Michele Leno, a licensed psychologist and founder of DML Psychological Services, PLLC, who was also not involved in the study.
“This is not to say that everyone feels viscerally connected to sexual partners, but the thoughts and feelings that enter our brains prior to sex can influence its outcome.”
Also, sexual self-consciousness is not uncommon.
“While many substances have calming effects, some come with side effects that are not so great when it comes to sex,” Dr. Leno said. “For instance, excessive alcohol may affect ejaculation or cause fatigue. Psychedelics, on the other hand, can decrease inhibitions and make one feel more at ease, without compromising performance.”
Psychedelics have been shown to have effects such as increasing social/interpersonal connections, Dr. Hellerstein explained. Also, they may decrease self-focused worry and rumination.
They may also lead to some degree of brain ‘plasticity’ in terms of synapse growth and brain network reorganization. People also seem to become more empathic and more meditative and even spiritual after dosing with psychedelics. These effects might possibly account for the findings.
However, it is also important to note that there are extremely high levels of expectation related to psychedelic treatment. And it is extremely difficult to ‘blind’ participants to whether they are receiving psychedelic treatment or a comparator, whether an active medicine like escitalopram or placebo, Dr. Hellerstein added.
“Simply put, psychedelics take individuals into an altered state,” said Dr. Carla Manly, a clinical psychologist and author of Date Smart, Joy from Fear, Aging Joyfully and her upcoming 2024 release, The Joy of Imperfect Love, who was not involved in the study.
“Especially for those who feel that their sexual needs are not met when they are in their natural state of consciousness, psychedelics may have an inherent appeal,” she told MNT.
Although many individuals prefer to enjoy sexual—and other life experiences—in an unaltered state of being, certain people find that feel less inhibited—and more expansive—when using psychedelics, Dr. Manly noted.
On a neurobiological level, a neuroimaging study on psilocybin (a common psychedelic) revealed a pattern of decreased cerebral blood flow and functional disconnections that is similar to what is caused by the use of certain anesthetics.
The dangers of engaging in sexual activity under the influence
Engaging in sexual activity under the influence comes with warnings.
“Even if you are familiar with your partner, you may not be aware of how they behave under the influence,” said Dr. Leno.
A substance that is intended to have a positive effect can still cause irritability and moodiness. Also, feeling too uninhibited may lead one to act impulsively only to feel regretful later, Dr. Leno explained. It is important to remember that not everyone will respond to mood-altering substances in the same way.
“Numerous substances, particularly alcohol but also psychedelics and other drugs, can affect judgment and decision-making in sexual situations. Psychedelic effects, including increased suggestibility and impaired reality testing, could put people in particularly vulnerable situations.” — Dr. David Hellerstein
“There have been issues of boundary violations among therapists and guides for psychedelic treatment which have involved inappropriate sexual behavior. Impaired judgment while high or stoned might lead a person to get sexually involved with someone who they otherwise might view as a poor choice,” Dr. Hellerstein added.
When in an altered state, it can be easy to engage in behaviors—sexual and otherwise—that one may later regret. As well, true consent is a vital part of healthy sexual behavior, and those who are under the influence of psychedelics may not be in the state of mind where informed—actual—consent is possible, Dr. Manly explained.
How to improve sexual function without drugs or psychedelics
“Sexual dysfunction often has an underlying cause and substances may provide a quick fix and do little for the cause,” said Leno. To boost your sexual function naturally, she recommends the following:
“Sexual function and sexual connection can be enhanced through a variety of ways, including natural supplements, self-work, and relationship therapy,” said Dr. Manly.
“Partners who are connected intimately—those who feel a deep emotional bond—tend to have high levels of sexual satisfaction. In essence, partners who are deeply attuned to each other tend to feel the most satisfied with their sexual lives.”— Dr. Carla Manly

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/salt-substitutes-significantly-lower-high-blood-pressure-risk
Salt substitutes significantly lower high blood pressure risk, study finds
Excess salt consumption is a known risk factor for developing high blood pressure.
New research shows swapping regular table salt for a salt substitute could help
regulate blood pressure in older adults.
Salt substitutes help minimize sodium intake while increasing potassium intake, both of which are associated with healthy blood pressure levels.
Overconsumption of salt is a global driver of cardiovascular disease and high blood pressure.
New research indicates that using salt substitutes — flavorful food additives with less sodium — instead of table salt could help reduce the risk of high blood pressure.
An article published February 12 in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology, found that older adults with blood pressure above normal who used a salt substitute had lower incidences of developing high blood pressure. They also had lower blood pressure overall compared to those who used table salt.
Additionally, incidences of low blood pressure (hypotension), a potential health concern for those with healthy blood pressure, were nearly identical between the two groups.
“This means the salt substitute is beneficial not only to people with hypertension, which has been demonstrated in previous studies, but also to people with normal blood pressure, and that it is safe,” Dr. Yangfeng Wu, Ph.D., executive director of Peking University Clinical Research Institute and senior author of the study, told Medical News Today.
Salt substitute cuts high blood pressure risk by 40%
The research comes out of the DECIDE-Salt trial, a multi-center trial conducted at 48 elderly care facilities in China. About 75% of participants were males, and the average age of participants was 71.
Throughout the two-year trial, scientists wanted to see how different salt initiatives would affect participants’ blood pressure.
The 2×2 factorial design compared usual salt intake and progressively restricted salt intake to regular salt or a salt substitute.
Participants who received the salt substitute demonstrated improvements in blood pressure.
To further investigate these findings, researchers wanted to see how the salt substitute would affect only individuals with less than 140/90 mm Hg, blood pressure.
The study included roughly 600 participants, divided evenly into two groups: one that received regular salt and one that got the salt substitute.
To be included in the trial, participants had to have a blood pressure reading of less than 140/90 mm Hg to meet the study authors’ “normal” blood pressure requirements and could not be taking any blood pressure medication.
However, it’s important to note that the ideal blood pressure reading is 120/80. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), anything above that is considered at-risk or prehypertensive.
Over the 2-year period of the study, researchers found that individuals in the salt substitute group were 40% less likely to develop high blood pressure than the salt group.
There were 60 new cases of high blood pressure for those using the salt substitute compared to 95 cases among those using salt.
Meanwhile, occurrences of low blood pressure were roughly even: 16.6% of subjects in the salt substitute group and 11.7% in the salt group. Researchers did not deem the finding to be statistically significant.
The average blood pressure reading between the two groups was important. Compared to the baseline reading, the salt substitute group saw an average 8-point decrease in systolic blood pressure (the top number) and a less robust, but still significant, 2-point decrease in diastolic blood pressure (the bottom number).
“The study demonstrated that mean blood pressure increased in the regular salt control group but remained unchanged in the salt substitute group,” Dr. Wu explained.
The authors note the salt substitute appeared to prevent blood pressure from increasing rather than causing a decrease in blood pressure. This distinction helps to explain why occurrences of low blood pressure remained about the same.
Should you reduce your salt intake?
Salt consumption has been associated with high blood pressure and other negative health outcomes such as:
Mounting evidence shows that salt substitutes can be a cheap, effective way to reduce salt intake.
In an accompanying editorial to the study, Dr. Rik Olde Engberink, Ph.D., a researcher at the University of Amsterdam UMC, looked at the potential public health effects of using salt substitutes on a large scale. He wrote that attempts to curb salt intake globally have been a “failing strategy” and noted that salt substitution is an “attractive alternative.”
“Ideally, individuals should choose the right products in the supermarket that contain a low amount of salt and should not add salt themselves. Dr. Engberink told MNT.
“This, however, is quite difficult for individuals. I would prefer that my patients eat less than 5 grams of salt instead of eating 10 grams of the salt substitute,” he said.
Sodium consumption has less to do with the salt shaker at the table, and much more to do with how foods are processed today.
Only about 10% of sodium intake comes from the salt shaker, the vast majority comes from refined, processed foods and eating out.
Kristin Kirkpatrick, a registered dietitian at the Cleveland Clinic and author of Regenerative Health, told MNT that she recommends avoiding processed foods and replacing salt with herbs and roots.
“Ultra-processed foods are often very high in salt. Salt substitutes can play a role. However, it is often not my primary behavior change that I am trying to assist with my patients,” she said.
What is the ideal sodium intake per day?
Salt and sodium are often used interchangeably, but it is important to know the difference.
Table salt is made up of sodium chloride, which is about 40% sodium and 60% chloride. So, in a given amount of salt, say a tablespoon, only 40% of it is sodium, which is why daily recommendations for salt intake differ from sodium intake.
The World Health Organization recommends consuming less than 2,000 milligrams of sodium or 5 grams of salt daily. In the United States, fewer than 2,300 mg of sodium per day is recommended.
Sodium doesn’t come exclusively from salt either, it can be found in preservatives like sodium nitrate and baking soda as well.
On the other hand, salt substitutes, like the one used in the study, replace some of the sodium content with another mineral, potassium, as well as flavorings, such as mushroom, lemon, herbs, or seaweed.
In the DECIDE-Salt trial, the salt substitute was made up of 62.5% sodium chloride, 25% potassium chloride, and 12.5% dried food flavorings.
Salt substitutes also show a double benefit by reducing sodium and increasing potassium intake — both of which have been shown to improve blood pressure.
“The use of potassium-enriched salt substitute will reduce sodium intake and increase potassium intake at the same time, and has a ‘double effect’ in lowering blood pressure without much changes in lifestyle habits required,” Dr. Wu said.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/how-a-new-stool-test-may-help-reduce-colorectal-cancer-deaths
How a new stool test may help reduce colorectal cancer deaths
Colorectal cancer is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer in men and women in the United States, excluding skin cancers
Screening for colorectal cancer has reduced rates of cancer since the mid-1980s.
A new screening test developed in the Netherlands may improve accuracy of colorectal cancer screening.
A new stool test could offer improved detection of precursors to colorectal cancer.
That’s according to a new study published in The Lancet Oncology.
The researchers from the Netherlands say the test they developed is more effective than currently available stool tests at detecting larger polyps.
“The current test performs well but leaves room for improvement,” Gerrit Meijer, principal investigator at the Netherlands Cancer Institute and co-author of the research, said in a press statement.
“We want to be able to detect the tumors before they have become invasive, that is at the stage of larger premalignant polyps. Treating physicians then can remove these polyps during a colonoscopy, rather than by surgery,” Meijer added.
The benefits of stool tests for colorectal cancer
FIT tests are fecal immunochemical tests. They are a type of stool test that many countries use in screening programs for colorectal cancer.
They work by detecting the presence of hemoglobin in stool samples. Hemoglobin is a type of protein found in blood.
“The big benefit of these tests that are stool based are the convenience of being able to do them in your own home. So, overall, they are very convenient to do and that’s why we’re happy that it is a screening option,” Folasade May, PhD, an associate professor of medicine in the Vatche and Tamar Manoukian Division of Digestive Diseases at the University of California Los Angeles, told Medical News Today.
“These tests are actually quite good at finding cancers,” added May, who was not involved in the research. “They are also pretty good at finding these pre-cancerous polyps that we also care about a lot. But they’re not going to be as good as finding a pre-cancerous polyp as, say, a colonoscopy. The biggest [downside] is that they’re not as good at detecting these precancerous lesions.”
How the new mtFIT colorectal cancer test is different
The researchers say their stool test is more effective than the FIT test at detecting precursors to colorectal cancer, such as polyps. They have called it the multitarget fit test (mtFIT).
Their test detects hemoglobin, the protein found in blood as well as two other proteins, calprotectin, and serpin family F member 2.
The researchers compared the efficacy of their test with standard tests by enlisting 13,187 people to give stool samples. They gave the samples to both the mtFIT and regular FIT test.
The researchers reported that their test led to more positive test results than the regular FIT. The mtFIT detected abnormalities in 299 people while the regular FIT detected abnormalities in 159 people.
“The new test detects more larger polyps without a significant increase in ‘false-positive’ results and thus unnecessary colonoscopies. This is exceptionally good news,” Meijer said.
Excluding skin cancers, colorectal cancer is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer in men and women in the United States.
The American Cancer Society estimates there will be roughly 106,590 new cases of colon cancer and roughly 46,220 new cases of rectal cancer in the United States this year.
Colorectal cancer rates have dropped since the 1980s, in large part due to screening programs. In the United States, it is recommended those aged between 45 to 75 be screened regularly for colorectal cancer.
The power of colorectal cancer screening
“With colorectal cancer screening is powerful in two ways,” May said. “Number one, it can help us with early detection, which is finding a cancer early enough that it’s curable. But I think even more powerful than that, colorectal cancer is a very unique cancer in that we also can find precancerous lesions with screening. And when we find and remove a precancerous polyp, the patient never gets a diagnosis of cancer. So imagine that you have the power of a technology that is eliminating cancer diagnoses. And that’s the way to think of the power of colorectal cancer screening.”
In the United States there are currently three available stools tests for colorectal cancer screening. CT colonography, flexible sigmoidoscopy, and colonoscopy are also used.
While a colonoscopy is considered among the most accurate of screening options, it comes with challenges.
“The problem with colonoscopy is that it’s just not as accessible as it probably should be… It’s just that there’s just a lack of resources and a lack of basically qualified people to do colonoscopy,” Dr. Babak Firoozi, a gastroenterologist at MemorialCare Orange Coast Medical Center in California, told Medical News Today.
“If we could find a stool test, to essentially filter out or weed out all those people who may not need the colonoscopy, it would provide access for everyone who needs one,” added Firoozi, who was not involved in the research. “And it’ll maybe allow some people who do not need a colonoscopy to not ever get one. This new test really comes very close. It comes a long way to helping, but it’s not quite there yet.”
Screening reduces cancer risk
Estimates suggests there will be 53,010 deaths due to colorectal cancer in the United States in 2024.
It is the third leading cause of deaths related to cancer in men and the fourth in women. If the cause of cancer deaths for both men and women are combined, colorectal cancer is the second most common cause.
Screening for colorectal cancer is a proven way to reduce risk of colorectal cancer. During screening, abnormal growths can be detected and then removed before they turn into cancer. Screening can also help detect colorectal cancer in its early stages, when treatment is most effective.
Experts say whether a person chooses a stool test, colonoscopy or other screening method for testing, the most important thing is to get tested.
“Get something done. Whether it’s stool based testing or colonoscopy. Go with what you’re comfortable with,” Firoozi said.
“So if you if you’re OK with doing the colonoscopy and you have access to it, by all means, get it. If access is a problem, or if you’re not comfortable undergoing a procedure, at least do the stool test,” he said.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/plant-based-diet-tied-to-improved-sexual-health-in-men-treated-for-prostate-cancer
Plant-based diet tied to improved sexual health in men treated for prostate cancer
Researchers are reporting that a plant-based diet can ease side effects from prostate cancer treatment, including erectile dysfunction and urinary problems.
They added that people on plant-based diets also showed better hormonal health, which can help when dealing with depression.
They noted that the study limitations included the fact that the data came mostly from white healthcare professionals.
A new study links a plant-based diet to fewer side effects experienced by people being treated for prostate cancer.
Researchers said limiting meat and dairy while eating plenty of fruits, vegetables, nuts, and grains can lessen erectile dysfunction, urinary incontinence, and other common side effects experienced by men after treatment.
The research, published in the journal Cancer, looked at more than 3,500 men with prostate cancer. Scientists put them into five groups based on the proportion of animal versus plant-based food the men reported eating.
The researchers found the group consuming the highest proportion of plants scored 8% to 11% higher in measures of sexual function, compared with the group consuming the least.
Results also showed up to 14% higher scores for urinary health, with fewer examples of irritation, obstruction, and incontinence.
The highest group of plant eaters also demonstrated up to 13% higher scores in hormonal health, assessing symptoms such as depression, hot flashes and low energy, compared to the lowest group on plant-based diets.
“Our findings offer hope for those looking for ways to improve their quality of life after undergoing surgery, radiation, and other common therapies for prostate cancer, which can cause significant side effects,” said Dr. Stacy Loeb, a urologist and the study’s lead author, in a statement.
Loeb, a professor in the Departments of Urology and Population Health at NYU Langone Health in New York, also said that “adding more fruits and vegetables to their diet, while reducing meat and dairy, is a simple step that patients can take.”
The study pointed out that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says prostate cancer is among the most common and deadliest forms of cancer among men in the United States.
The same team did previous research finding that eating a plant-based diet can reduce the risk of developing prostate cancer in the first place. They pointed out in a statement that other research linked a plant-based diet to a lower risk of general sexual dysfunction, but not specifically in those suffering from prostate cancer.
Loeb said she believes the study is the first showing better urinary health in men with prostate cancer based on nutrition.
How the prostate cancer study was conducted
The team analyzed data from the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study, an ongoing investigation sponsored by the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health in Boston that started in 1986.
The follow-up study used data from more than 50,000 male dentists, pharmacists, optometrists, osteopaths, podiatrists, and veterinarians.
The project was meant to analyze nutrition’s impact related to cancer, heart disease, and other serious illnesses. Men with prostate cancer answered a questionnaire every four years about what and how much they ate.
The team also looked at a survey administered every two years that assessed difficulties in maintaining an erection, frequency of incontinence, and issues with mood, energy, and bowels, among other health factors. More than 83% of the participants had received prostate cancer treatment.
Loeb said that both in the earlier and current studies, the cancer hadn’t spread from the prostate. The team also factored in physical activity, weight, and other quality of life information.
They said that regardless of lifestyle factors or other medical issues such as diabetes, consuming large amounts of plant-based food was linked to better sexual health, urinary health, and vitality scores.
“These results add to the long list of health and environmental benefits of eating more plants and fewer animal products,” Loeb said. “They also clearly challenge the historical misconception that eating meat boosts sexual function in men, when in fact the opposite seems to be the case.”
Limitations to the plant-based diet study
Loeb noted that the men examined in the study were mostly white healthcare professionals.
She said the team will now expand their research to a more diverse group of men, including those with a more advanced stage of cancer.
Dr. Ramkishen Narayanan, a urologist, urologic oncologist, and director of the Center for Urologic Health at The Roy and Patricia Disney Family Cancer Center at Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center in California, told Medical News Today that research of this type is “valuable and needed.”
However, he agrees a more diverse group needs examining.
“The population studied was a large cohort of white male health care professionals, who typically are in the upper echelon of health compared to the general population. We also don’t have granular data on any erectile dysfunction medications or therapies these men may have been taking,” said Narayanan, who was not involved in the study.
He said plant eaters would also go into the study with better metrics concerning diabetes and cardiovascular health, even before being diagnosed with prostate cancer. So pre-treatment and post-treatment comparisons are necessary.
Dr. Angelo Kanellos, a urologist at Urology Nevada and a member of the Society of Robotic Surgeons who also was not involved in the study, told Medical News Today the study is “very encouraging.”
“Quite frankly we as professionals have been slower in encouraging patients to improve their lifestyles and dietary habits,” Kanellos said. “We are often focused on medical treatment and have opportunities to adopt more holistic approaches. I do think a study like this will encourage urologists to educate patients about the importance of diet to help in their recovery.”
Kanellos said a cancer diagnosis is often a trigger for people to become more conscientious with their health. In addition, the study helps arm doctors with scientific data to help encourage lifestyle changes.
“I believe it also shows us that the die is not cast. A dietary life of fries and burgers does not mean that some of the damage can’t be reversed,” he added. “More validation that healthy eating is a good idea is helpful.”
Changing your diet isn’t necessarily easy
Stephanie Meyers, a senior oncology clinical dietitian at online health platform OncoHealth, told Medical News Today that changing one’s diet isn’t easy.
“In my experience, one challenging thing that can come up from a study like this is health professionals referring to changing eating habits as ‘simple steps people can take,’” said Meyers, who wasn’t involved in the study.
“I’m up close and personal with the struggles people face trying to eat more vegetables and fruits while dealing with difficult side effects and financial hardship related to their treatment. I think people underestimate the pressure those with cancer feel to ‘eat better,'” she noted.
“What’s needed is specific support that takes into account the barriers people face day-to-day as eaters when going through cancer,” Meyers added.
Narayanan said people should look for protein and “bursts of color” in each meal. He also said, “healthy animal protein is certainly acceptable.”
“Eat whole foods. Stay away from processed foods,” he advised. “To keep it simple, one can think of a vegetarian diet, but being flexible with protein is fine. A serving of healthy, unprocessed animal protein such as fish per meal is perfectly acceptable.”
“Be wary of the amount of processing that can take place with fake meat,” Narayanan said. “It is preferable to have unprocessed, healthy animal protein. The Mediterranean diet is a great option that still tips the scales toward more of a plant-based diet.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/how-exercise-can-help-ease-pain-for-some-people-with-cancer
How exercise can help ease pain for some people with cancer
Researchers say people with cancer who exercised regularly reported lower levels of pain.
The findings are similar to research showing an association between exercise and pain mitigation among non cancer patients
Experts say that exercise should be used alongside medication to treat pain
Engaging in intense exercise might not be the first thing that people fighting cancer think to do, but a new study reports that a workout can help ease cancer-related pain.
“It may feel counterintuitive to some, but physical activity is an effective, non-pharmacologic option for reducing many types of pain,” said Dr. Erika Rees-Punia, a study senior author and the American Cancer Society’s senior principal scientist for epidemiology and behavioral research, in a press statement. “As our study suggests, this may include pain associated with cancer and its treatments.”
In the study published in the journal Cancer, Rees-Punia and Dr. Christopher T.V. Swain, first study author and a fellow at the University of Melbourne in Australia, looked at 10,651 adults with a past cancer diagnosis and 51,439 adults without a history of cancer.
Participants were asked to rate their average pain level from 0 to 10, with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worst pain imaginable. They also were queried about their engagement in exercise.
The researchers reported that more physical activity was associated with lower pain intensity, whether or not individuals had a history of cancer.
Among those with a past cancer diagnosis, those exceeding the physical activity guidelines established by the U.S. government — getting 150 to 300 minutes a week of moderate-intensity exercise, or 75 to 150 minutes per week of vigorous-intensity aerobic physical activity — were 16% less likely to report moderate-to-severe pain compared to those who exercised less.
Less pain also was reported by those who were consistently active or became active as older adults compared to those who remained inactive, the researchers said.
“Cancer pain can be debilitating and most patients in palliative care, often require opioid-based pain medications like morphine just to get by,” Dr. Ryan Peterson, a pain medicine specialist and anesthesiologist at NuView Treatment Center, a Los Angeles-based addiction treatment program, told Medical News Today.
“While pharmacological interventions are good, I recommend non-pharmacologic therapies such as gradual exercise as tolerable when possible so as to prevent muscle atrophy and further pain. Exercise is also known to aid in the release of endorphins, which may be helpful in pain alleviation and tolerance,” said Peterson, who was not involved in the study.
Making exercise part of a cancer treatment plan
Dr. Jessica Cheng, a physiatrist at City of Hope Orange County in California who specializes in prehabilitation and rehabilitation told Medical News Today it is “important to maintain as much physical activity as possible before, throughout, and after the cancer journey.”
“There are many benefits of exercising for cancer patients including lowering depression, anxiety, [and] fatigue and the potential to improve survival rates in certain cancers,” she added.
“When starting exercise, discussion with the treating oncologist and an evaluation by a cancer rehabilitation specialist are encouraged,” said Cheng, who was not involved in the study. “Every individual has their own individual medical situation, abilities and preferences, and I always emphasize the importance of patients doing activities they find enjoyable. Shadow boxing, walking, swimming, dancing, cycling, and modified wheelchair Zumba are all great options.”
Despite the study’s correlation between pain reduction and vigorous exercise, healthcare professionals must walk a fine line when advising cancer patients about exercise, experts said.
“I always emphasize balance to my patients. There are times to rest and times to encourage physical activity,” said Cheng.
“Exhaustion from physical exertion can impact your body’s ability to fight malignancies because the body, when subjected to physical stress, reacts via inflammation, and this might be too much to handle for cancer patients whose normal physiologic adaptive responses are already blunted or compromised,” added Peterson.
“Low-impact exercises may be ideal for patients with cancer,” he noted. “These include light walks, yoga, swimming, or meditation through movement. Certain types of cancer affect bone density and increase the risk of falls and fractures, so it would be prudent for cancer patients to partake in monitored, low-impact exercises for their safety and well-being. Even light ambulation at the very least can aid in improving mobility.”
However, Dr. Jennifer Beebe-Dimmer, an epidemiologist at Wayne State University’s Barbara Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute in Michigan and principal investigator of the CAPABLE (Cross Training and Physical Activity: A Better Life Experience) study, told Medical News Today that “there is more and more evidence to suggest that higher intensity interval workouts combined with strength training is a great method to improve all sorts of short- and long-term [cancer] outcomes.”
“But some exercise is better than nothing at all,” said Beebe-Dimmer, who was not involved in the study. “Whatever form of exercise patients can tolerate, I suggest they stick with it.”
Exercise should be prescribed alongside pain-reducing medications for people with cancer, not in place of them, experts agreed.
“Broadly speaking, pain management benefits the patient the most when offered as part of an integrated approach to cancer care,” said Cheng.
“When it comes to pain management, the standard of care should be offered to cancer patients and that remains to be the pharmacological approach such as prescribing regulated morphine or other opioid-based medications,” Peterson said. “However, we can still offer non-pharmacological therapies such as low-impact exercises.”
Cancer creates a different kind of pain
Cancer pain can be different than other types of pain, Peterson said.
“Pain from cancer is on a different tier as we pain medicine specialists would call it,” he said. “Usually, pain from cancer, regardless of the type of malignancy, can be described as an unpleasant sensory experience due to systemic tissue damage as a consequence of cancer’s effects on the body. Aside from the cancer itself, pain can also come from the treatment and therapeutics that the patient is subjected to. Over 20 to 50 percent of cancer patients experience pain and the majority of it can be attributed to surgical and non-surgical therapies that they undergo.”
Some of the pain-reducing effect of exercise reported in the study could be the result of increased pain tolerance, according to Peterson.
“You usually adapt to certain pain levels over time, especially if you exercise, as muscle growth can allow you to perform better activities thus leading to less strain and pain,” he said. “Cancer patients have limited mobility at times, and so, it is probable that their [baseline] pain tolerance is low.”
Future research should focus on “the ideal levels of intensity and frequency of the exercises for alleviating pain and cancer and the type of low-impact exercises such as yoga and swimming, and if it can be a good adjunct in pain alleviation among oncologic patients receiving strong pain medication,” said Peterson.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/omega-3-supplements-vitamin-d-more-effective-preventing-autoimmune-diseases
Omega-3 supplements may be more effective in preventing autoimmune diseases
Autoimmune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, lupus, and inflammatory bowel disease affect more than 24 million Americans.
Supplements that help regulate inflammation and chronic pain — and that can forestall the effects of autoimmune diseases — have shown to be effective.
Researchers have been looking into two supplements in particular — vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids.
A recent study of more than 20,000 participants showed that two years after a randomized five-year trial period, the benefits of vitamin D in preventing autoimmune diseases had waned while those of omega-3 were still strong.
A recent study of more than 20,000 participants showed that two years after a randomized five-year trial period, the benefits of vitamin D in preventing autoimmune diseases had waned while those of omega-3 fatty acids were still strong.
In the study, published in January in the journal Arthritis & Rheumatology, the authors said that 21,592 participants in the VITAL trials — conducted among more than 25,000 total participants to determine the effects of vitamin D and omega-3 supplements on cancer and cardiovascular disease — were followed for an additional two years after the supplements were discontinued.
Among that population of the participants, who were men over 50 and women over 55, the study authors found 236 new cases of confirmed autoimmune disease since the initial trial’s results were published, 65 probable cases in the 5.3 years of the randomized trial, and 42 probable cases diagnosed during the 2-year observational phase.
After the two-year observation period, 255 people who had randomly received vitamin D had a newly developed confirmed autoimmune disease, compared with 259 who had received a vitamin D placebo, a nonsignificant hazard risk (HR) of 0.98.
There were 234 confirmed autoimmune disease cases among people who received omega-3 supplements, compared with 280 among those who received a placebo — a statistically significant HR of 0.83.
“Two years after trial termination, vitamin D 2000 IU/day’s protective effects dissipated, but 1000 mg/day n-3 fatty acids had a sustained effect in reducing AD incidence,” the authors wrote.
How do supplements work in fighting autoimmune diseases?
Autoimmune diseases, which affect more than 24 million people in the United States, are diseases characterized by the immune system attacking otherwise healthy tissue. They include conditions like psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, Grave’s disease, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), celiac disease, and type 1 diabetes.
Treatments for these conditions can be costly and long-term, and the effects of vitamin D and omega-3 supplements have long been known as beneficial to stall autoimmune diseases.
According to the study in question, vitamin D is capable of regulating genes involved in inflammation, and the body cannot make the essential n-3 fatty acids eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexanoic acid (DHA), which are found in fish oil supplements.
Randomized controlled trials conducted in the 1980s and 1990s have shown the effectiveness of fish oil supplements against inflammation and pain associated with autoimmune diseases.
Melanie Murphy Richter, a registered dietitian nutritionist and the director of communications for Prolon, who was not involved in the study, told Medical News Today that the overall lack of vitamin D in most people means supplementation is critical.
“Most people (even those who live in sunny locations like Los Angeles or Florida) are deficient in vitamin D. In fact, 1 billion people worldwide have a vitamin D deficiency, with 50% of the population having a vitamin D insufficiency (low-normal levels). In the U.S. alone, more than 35% of adults are deficient,” Richter said.
“Vitamin D is revered in the medical community for its antioxidant-like qualities and its ability to regulate a variety of immune functions, like B cell and T cell regulation (the functions responsible for suppressing pro-inflammatory cytokines in the body and increasing anti-inflammatory properties in the body). It has the ability to reduce inflammation and plays a role in maintaining the integrity of the gut lining. Our gut health is critical in managing symptoms for autoimmune patients, too.” — Melanie Murphy Richter, dietitian nutritionist
How should I choose vitamin D or omega-3 supplements?
Kristin Kirkpatrick, a registered dietitian at the Cleveland Clinic Dept of Department of Wellness & Preventive Medicine in Cleveland, Ohio, and a senior fellow at the Meadows Behavioral Healthcare in Wickenburg, Arizona, who was also not involved in the study, told MNT that while the study supports the use of these supplements, there are a number of other factors to consider when it comes to a holistic look at health.
“Supplementation should be considered only with the addition of high-nutrient-dense diet, good quality sleep, stress management and limitation of sedentary behavior,” Kirkpatrick said, adding that consumers should have some caveats when it comes to looking for vitamin D or omega-3 supplements.
“Two things come to mind that are important for both. 1. Quality – not all supplements are created equal and in an unregulated market, consumers need to do their homework on the best options. 2 – dose. The dose for vitamin D, for example, may be considered alongside current D levels. and for omega 3’s, dose may be dependent on outside consumption from food of omega 3’s.”— Kristin Kirkpatrick, registered dietitian
Murphy added that the study had a particularly narrow focus and didn’t consider lifestyle modifications that could also affect autoimmune disease.
“The main population was older adults, which means that the results might not be generalizable to a younger population. The study only looked at one dose and formulation of each supplement, which could impact future outcomes,” Murphy said.
“A more comprehensive study should look at a more diverse population base with a younger subsect of participants, as well as varying dosages. It should also consider finding ways to control external impacts like diet, lifestyle, and stress factors,” she added.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/taking-blood-thinners-after-a-stroke-does-not-improve-outcomes-study-says
Taking blood thinners after a stroke does not improve outcomes, study says
About 15 million people around the world have a stroke each year, with about 62% of cases being ischemic strokes.
The main treatment for ischemic stroke is a clot-busting medication delivered within 3 hours of having a stroke.
After a stroke, a doctor may prescribe blood-thinning medications to help prevent clots from forming again.
Researchers from the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, MO, have found that giving blood thinners in conjunction with clot-busting medications when a person has an ischemic stroke did not improve the person’s 90-day outcome.
Researchers report that about 15 million people around the world have a stroke in the course of a year. About 62% of those people will have an ischemic stroke where blood flow to the brain is stopped due to arterial blockages.
A stroke is an emergency — if you or someone is experiencing stroke symptoms, call 911.
The main treatment for an ischemic stroke is a clot-busting medication that breaks up the arterial clots to allow regular blood flow to the brain. This medication must be delivered within 3 hours of the stroke occurring.
Now, scientists from the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, MO, reported on new research at the American Stroke Association’s International Stroke Conference 2024.
Their findings indicate that giving blood thinners in addition to clot-busting medications when a person has an ischemic stroke did not improve the person’s 90-day outcome.
Researchers also found that the combination of blood thinners and clot-busting medication did not increase a person’s risk of bleeding in the brain.
Why researchers looked at the blood thinners and clot-busting drug combo
During either a stroke or a heart attack — when an arterial blockage stops blood from flowing to the heart — doctors may administer clot-busting medications called thrombolytics.
People who have either a stroke or heart attack may also be prescribed a blood thinner to help keep clots from forming and lower their risk of having another one.
According to Dr. Opeolu M. Adeoye, BJC HealthCare Distinguished Professor of Emergency Medicine and chair of the Department of Emergency Medicine at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, MO, and lead author of the current study, the research team decided to assess what type of effect adding blood thinners to clot-busting medications would have on people with ischemic stroke.
That was because, while treatment with clot-busting medications works for ischemic stroke, about half of treated patients experience disability 3 months after stroke even with this treatment.
“In the setting of heart attacks, adding these blood thinners to clot-busting medications improved rates of opening blood vessels and improved outcomes,” Dr. Adeoye explained to Medical News Today. “We wanted to see if using this approach would also improve outcomes in stroke.”
No improvement of 90-day outcomes
For this study, Dr. Adeoye and his team analyzed results from the Multi-Arm Optimization of Stroke Thrombolysis (MOST) trial, encompassing study participants from 57 medical centers in the United States.
Study participants in the MOST trial had ischemic stroke severe enough that rehabilitation would likely be necessary.
All participants received a standard clot-busting medication within three hours of the stroke beginning. Participants then received either one of two blood thinners — argatroban or eptifibatide — within 75 minutes of administration of the clot-busting medication plus a 2-hour infusion of the blood thinner, or a placebo.
Upon analysis, researchers found the addition of blood thinners to the clot-busting medication did not improve a participant’s level of physical function at 90 days after an ischemic stroke.
For this reason, the MOST trial was stopped in July 2023 after the results of the first 500 study participants out of a planned 1,200 participants and determined it highly unlikely that a benefit would be found if the research was completed.
Positive takeaways for clinicians and stroke patients
Dr. Adeoye said they were surprised by the negative results.
“Reopening clotted blood vessels is the goal with stroke treatment,” he explained. “We had shown in earlier studies that the medications may improve outcomes, so we were surprised when we found no benefit from the treatments.”
”We believe the key difference between MOST and our prior studies is that the prior studies were done in an era before thrombectomy (physically removing clots through a procedure). As such, any potential benefits of the medications were somewhat blunted by the fact that 44% of MOST patients underwent thrombectomy,” he added.
Despite the negative outcome, Dr. Adeoye said there are positive takeaways for scientists when it comes to future research in ischemic stroke treatment.
The study also showed that the two blood thinners used did not significantly increase the risk of bleeding into the brain.
“We have definitely shown that these two medications do not work for improving outcomes and that adding blood thinners to clot-busting medication [does] not increase rates of bleeding into the brain. As we go forward, these findings will inform future research in the area.”
– Dr. Opeolu M. Adeoye
“Bleeding into the brain is the most important safety concern in treating stroke patients with clot-busting medication and/or blood thinners,” Dr. Adeoye added. “We found that adding additional blood thinners did not improve rates of bleeding into the brain. This means that this approach is safe and worthy of further investigation.”
Setting the stage for future studies
After reviewing this study, Dr. José Morales, vascular neurologist and neurointerventional surgeon at Pacific Neuroscience Institute in Santa Monica, CA, told MNT he found the findings very interesting.
“We typically do not give any sort of blood thinners for the first 24 hours after receiving a thrombolytic agent because of the presumed risk of intracranial hemorrhage [bleeding in the brain],” Dr. Morales explained. “But it’s been an open question that hadn’t been tested in randomized clinical controlled trials whether or not there was some safety there.”
“I think [the findings] put it all in perspective for us that although the thrombolytic medications have a short half-life, trying to enhance antiplatelet regimens against the potential risk of residual thrombosis or atherothrombosis is not particularly effective and it’s not safe at this point,” he added. “Things to look for in the future will be to look to see if other agents might be using adjunctively and perhaps safely, say like aspirin.”
MNT also spoke with Dr. Cheng-Han Chen, a board-certified interventional cardiologist and medical director of the Structural Heart Program at MemorialCare Saddleback Medical Center in Laguna Hills, CA, about this study.
Dr. Chen said the parallels between stroke — also called “brain attack” — and heart attack are driving research to see if treatments typically used for heart attacks would also be beneficial treatment for stroke.
“They didn’t find a benefit to these medications, which was unfortunate, but at least they didn’t find any evidence of harm, either,” he continued. “So it remains to be seen whether there are also very specific types of stroke treatments that would involve these medications. I think it would be helpful to study other avenues of drug delivery [… ] [and] it would be great to see other research with other types of blood thinners.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/who-is-most-likely-to-develop-coronary-artery-disease
Who is most likely to develop coronary artery disease?
Coronary artery disease is characterized by a dysfunction of the endothelial cells that form the innermost lining of all blood vessels.
A new study has identified five biological pathways regulated by a few genes that could potentially play a prominent role in coronary artery disease through their involvement in endothelial cell function.
Notably, these pathways included genes whose role in coronary artery disease has not been previously demonstrated.
One of the genes in these pathways, TLNRD1, plays an essential role in endothelial function, cardiovascular health, and potentially coronary artery disease, according to the study.
These findings could lead to the development of novel therapies targeting endothelial cell dysfunction in coronary artery disease.
Coronary artery disease is the leading cause of death in the United States. Therapies such as statins, which target high cholesterol levels, can reduce the risk of mortality due to coronary artery disease.
These effects of statins are mediated, in part, by improving blood vessel health. However, there is a lack of therapies for coronary artery disease that directly target the endothelial cells that form the inner lining of blood vessels and influence blood flow.
Identifying genetic risk factors associated with endothelial cell function could help develop therapeutics that target blood vessels.
Research has shown that specific genetic variants are associated with an increased risk of coronary artery disease. These genetic variants regulate the expression of several genes that work together in a small number of major biological pathways.
However, methodological limitations have impeded the identification of major pathways associated with coronary artery disease variants.
Understudied gene plays key role in coronary artery disease
A new study using a combination of high-throughput molecular biology techniques and computational methods has identified major biological pathways and novel genes involved in endothelial cell function that could contribute to the risk of coronary artery disease.
The paper reporting the study findings appears in Nature.
Study author Dr. Jesse Engreitz, assistant professor at Stanford University, CA, explained the findings to Medical News Today:
“We found that genetic risk factors for coronary artery disease converge onto a particular pathway in endothelial cells. One of the known roles of this pathway is to tune endothelial cell responses to blood flow, and includes genes that could prove to be good targets for therapies that directly target blood vessels.”
“We also found a new understudied gene, TLNRD1, that plays a key role in this pathway in humans and zebrafish but has previously eluded notice. The list of genes we identified might also prove helpful in identifying individuals who are genetically predisposed to having poor vascular health and, therefore, may respond better to existing medications,” added Dr. Engreitz.
How researchers pinpointed genetic risk factors for heart disease
Advances in genome sequencing technologies have facilitated the discovery of genetic variants associated with several diseases. These genome-wide association studies involve examining genomes from a large number of individuals to identify genetic variants associated with a particular disease.
Several of these genetic variants associated with a disease likely regulate a small number of biological pathways, with each pathway consisting of several genes that work together.
Although genetic variants have been identified for several diseases, linking genetic variants to a few converging biological pathways has been challenging.
A majority of these genetic variants identified by genome-wide association studies do not code for proteins. Instead, these noncoding variants regulate the expression of multiple genes nearby that are involved in biological pathways associated with the disease.
However, identifying the specific genes regulated by each variant and playing a role in disease-associated pathways remains challenging.
Moreover, multiple cells contribute to the development and progression of a disease. Different biological pathways operate in each cell type and contribute to the disease. The specific biological pathways in a particular cell type impacted by disease-associated variants have not been fully characterized.
In other words, how genetic variants identified using genome-wide association studies affect biological function is not well understood. In the present study, the researchers investigated the biological pathways associated with genetic variants that are involved in coronary artery disease.
Dr . Engreitz said: “Human genetics has been immensely successful over the last decades in identifying variants that influence risk for disease — there are now 100,000s of associations between genetic loci and particular human diseases and traits. This vast trove of insights could reveal genes that mediate disease and guide therapeutic development.”
“But, it has proven extremely difficult to find the genes, cell types, and pathways underlying each of these associations. Sometimes, it can take a decade to solve this “variant-to-function” problem for even one association,” he added.
254 genes linked to coronary artery disease
More than 300 genetic variants have been identified for coronary artery disease using genome-wide association studies. These coronary artery disease-associated variants are known to impact cells associated with blood vessels and hepatocytes in the liver.
In the present study, the authors specifically examined the variants impacting the function of endothelial cells that are present in the walls of blood vessels.
The researchers used laboratory cultures of genetically modified endothelial cells obtained from the human aorta, the blood vessel that carries oxygenated blood to the rest of the body.
The genome of these endothelial cells was sequenced, and then a computational model was used to map genes whose expression was influenced by the coronary artery disease-associated variant.
With the help of data on coronary artery disease-associated variants identified by previous studies, the researchers identified nearly 2,000 genes close to these variants.
Among these genes, the expression of 254 genes was regulated by the coronary artery disease-associated variants.
The researchers then identified the programs or pathways associated with coronary artery disease. They used CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) to individually inhibit the expression of each gene identified in the vicinity of the coronary artery disease-associated variants.
Subsequently, the researchers examined the changes in the gene expression profile of the endothelial aorta cells upon the inhibition of individual candidate genes.
Using computational methods, genes that showed similar patterns of changes in expression profile were categorized as coregulated genes.
These coregulated genes were classified as a biological program or pathway. The analysis generated 50 such programs, several of which were involved in processes that were not specific to endothelial cells or coronary artery disease.
Gene involved in blood flow regulation may be key
The researchers then examined programs in which the 254 genes regulated by coronary artery disease-associated variants were overrepresented. They identified five such programs, which encompassed 41 coronary artery disease-associated genes and 43 variants.
While these programs included genes that have been implicated in coronary artery disease, a majority of genes in these pathways have not yet been identified as risk factors for this condition.
In addition, all five programs were regulated by genes associated with the pathway associated with cerebral cavernous malformations (CCM), a condition involving the formation of tiny, abnormal clusters of blood vessels in the brain.
Specifically, the analysis revealed that the CCM2 gene and other genes in the CCM pathway were involved in the regulation of all five coronary artery disease pathways.
Previous studies have shown that the CCM pathway modulates the function of endothelial cells in blood vessels and regulates blood flow.
However, CCM2 and other CCM pathway genes have not been shown to be involved in coronary artery disease. The present study found that inhibiting the expression of CCM pathways modulated the expression of genes that have been shown to be involved in coronary artery disease. These findings indicate the involvement of genes in the CCM pathway in coronary artery disease.
The researchers further examined the role of one of the novel CCM pathway genes, TLNRD1. They focused on TLNRD1 because the gene is one of the strongest regulators of the five coronary artery disease pathways. The role of TLNRD1 in endothelial cell function has not been characterized so far.
The researchers found that TLNRD1 interacts with CCM2 and, consequently, examined whether TLNRD1 performed a function similar to CCM2. The disruption of TLNRD1 in cells cultured in the laboratory altered the barrier function of endothelial cells. Such an impaired barrier function of endothelial cells has been implicated in cardiovascular diseases.
In addition, the disruption of the TLNRD1 expression in zebrafish also adversely impacted heart and blood vessel development in a zebrafish model.
These results support the role of the TLNRD1 gene in sustaining blood flow and could be a risk factor for coronary artery disease development.
New approach to genetic research of heart disease
Besides aiding the identification of new therapeutic targets for coronary artery disease, the methodological approach used by the study could facilitate the discovery of novel biological pathways associated with other diseases.
Dr. Engrietz said: “In this study, we developed a new methodology to extract lessons from human genetic data. Here, we took a new approach leveraging CRISPR tools, which we use to simultaneously break every candidate gene in different endothelial cells in a dish and measure what happens to these cells. From there, we use computational models to learn which sets of genes are working together in pathways.”
“With this comprehensive and systematic data, we are able to much better interpret genetic associations and here identify likely causal genes for 40 out of [approximately] 300 loci for coronary artery disease in a single pass. We think this tool will be a powerful approach for studying many other heritable diseases in the future,” added Dr. Engrietz.
Dr. Cheng-Han Chen, board-certified interventional cardiologist and medical director of the Structural Heart Program at MemorialCare Saddleback Medical Center in Laguna Hills, CA, not involved in this study, commented that:
“This research has the potential to open an entirely new field of research, as it might be able to identify the molecular connections more efficiently between gene variants and clinical disease. With such a strategy, researchers would then be able to target the biological pathways through therapeutics to improve clinical outcomes.”
CDC reports some pregnant women, infants received the wrong RSV shot

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/scientists-discover-biological-mechanism-of-hearing-loss-caused-by-loud-noise-and-find-a-way-to-prevent-it
Scientists discover biological mechanism of hearing loss caused by loud noise – and find a way to prevent it
Noise-induced hearing loss is a common condition in the United States that can lead to permanent hearing loss.
Despite being widespread, the mechanism that causes it is still not well understood.
Scientists have now discovered a potential root cause at the cellular level — and how to prevent it.
If you enjoy live music, you’ve almost certainly experienced noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) — that nagging, muffled perception of sound or ringing in your ears at the end of the night.
Sometimes it’s gone by the next morning, sometimes it lingers longer. The condition can be transitory at first, but over time it can lead to more severe and even permanent hearing loss.
Despite being a common condition, millions of adults, up to one in four in the United States, are estimated to have some form of it.
Little is known about the exact mechanisms that cause NIHL to happen. This, consequently, also makes the condition more difficult to prevent and treat.
To address the pervasive condition, scientists are investigating how NIHL occurs on the cellular level in the body. In research published this week in the journal PNAS, scientists appear to be another step closer to understanding and potentially preventing NIHL.
What the study on hearing loss showed
In the study, scientists found that loud noises affected parts of the ear on a molecular level, disrupting hearing function specifically having to do with the mineral zinc in the cochlea, a spiral-shaped cavity in the inner ear that converts sound waves into electrical impulses that the brain interprets as sound frequencies.
Zinc plays an important role in the body, including supporting the immune system and chemical signaling in the brain.
Researchers reported that when mice were exposed to loud noises the rodents’ labile zinc levels spiked. Labile zinc is zinc that is “free” and has not bound to a protein. This dysregulation of zinc in turn led to damage and degeneration at the cellular level, manifesting as hearing loss.
The discovery also led the scientists to discover a potential cure as well. By using a chelating agent, a drug that was able to soak up that excess zinc, researchers reported that they could reduce hearing loss.
They said the findings could one day help to prevent NIHL in the future.
“Our study is the first to identify the precise location of labile zinc signaling in the inner ear. We also are the first to document the dysregulation of zinc signaling in the inner ear after loud noise exposure. Most importantly, we are the first to show that noise-induced hearing loss can be mitigated by administering compounds that chelate, or trap, excess free zinc,” Thanos Tzounopoulos, PhD, the director of the Pittsburgh Hearing Research Center at the University of Pittsburgh and senior author of the study, told Medical News Today.
“It’s a well-done study,” added Dr. Marc Feeley, an assistant professor of otolaryngology and head and neck surgery at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Tennessee who was not involved in the study.
“The most significant contribution I believe is that it allows us to direct further studies and research regarding noise-induced hearing loss with zinc chelation,” he told Medical News Today.
Understanding the zinc link
Zinc is found throughout the body, but it is highly concentrated in the inner ear.
Dysregulation of zinc signaling has been investigated in other traumatic experiences, including stroke and optic nerve damage, where it’s been associated with tissue damage. It hasn’t been looked at as a mechanism for hearing loss.
A 2023 study found that in stroke patients, following a cerebral ischemia, “intracellular zinc accumulation has been shown to be associated with neuronal death.”
So, just as zinc is associated with cellular damage in other parts of the body, it is now believed to play a role in hearing loss.
“Under normal conditions, at least in the brain, but perhaps also in the inner ear, ‘free’ zinc functions by fine-tuning synaptic communications between nerve cells and helps sensory processing. But, as previous literature showed, dysregulation in free zinc signaling can cause cell degeneration and death,” said Tzounopoulos.
He and his team hope that this finding and the subsequent use of zinc chelators to prevent hearing loss could one day serve as an additional therapy for hearing loss. In the study, the zinc chelator was applied directly to the inner ear or into the belly of the mouse prior to a loud noise exposure.
“The fact that both options were effective at protecting mice from hearing loss suggests that, in the future, we could develop a pill that a person could take before a known loud sound exposure to protect oneself from hearing loss,” said Tzounopoulos.
Preventing hearing loss
Noise-induced hearing loss can be caused by a single incident of loud noise, such as an explosion, or progressively through exposure to loud noises, like working with machinery.
It can even be caused by things you experience in daily life, such as traffic or listening to loud music.
The National Institutes of Health (NIH) estimates that between 6% and 24% of adults in the United States under age 70 have some degree of NIHL. Teenagers are even more susceptible as 17% of them in the United States are estimated to have NIHL in one or both ears.
Hearing aids are the “gold standard” for treatment of NIHL, but there are also surgical and even some medicinal options. However, when it comes to hearing loss, the best thing to do is to prevent it in the first place.
“People do not realize how damaging loud noises can be. Our experiments show that even 100 decibels – the level of noise one can expect at a soccer match – is enough to trigger rapid zinc release, damage in the inner ear, and hearing loss. Prevention is the best way to protect your hearing,” said Tzounopoulos.
According to the NIH, regular exposure to sounds over 85 decibels can cause hearing loss. To better understand what that means, consider the following examples of sounds you might experience with some regularity:
Prevention just means common sense measures such as using earplugs if you know you’ll be exposed to loud noises.
“Current guidelines recommend that patients with noise exposure, continue to wear earmuffs, and/or earplugs to mitigate the hearing loss damage,” said Feeley.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/how-gastric-bypass-surgery-can-help-with-type-2-diabetes-remission
How gastric bypass surgery can help with type 2 diabetes remission
Researchers say people who have gastric bypass surgery for weight loss are significantly less likely to have their type 2 diabetes return, even after gaining back weight.
Insulin use, higher A1c, and a longer duration of type 2 diabetes before surgery were more closely associated with diabetes recurrence.
Overall, 75% of people who had gastric bypass saw their diabetes stay in remission, compared with 34% of people in the sleeve gastrectomy group.
People with obesity and type 2 diabetes who have had gastric bypass surgery are more likely to experience remission for their diabetes, even if they regain weight, than those who received a gastric sleeve procedure.
That’s according to a new study published in the Journal of the American College of Surgeons.
Researchers from the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota examined the relationship between weight loss surgery and diabetes remission.
They reviewed the medical records of 224 participants who underwent a gastric bypass at the Mayo Clinic between 2008 and 2017. They also looked at the records of 46 people who received a gastric sleeve procedure.
All participants had been diagnosed with obesity and type 2 diabetes before their gastric surgery.
The scientists monitored the participants for at least five years following surgery to see if weight gain led to a recurrence of diabetes.
The findings from the gastric bypass and diabetes study
Some of the findings from the new study included:
Gastric bypass surgery decreases the size of the stomach and reroutes the upper part of the small intestine – the duodenum. Gastric sleeve surgery reduces the size of the stomach by 80% but does not reroute the upper part of the small intestine like a gastric bypass does.
“[This study is] clinically relevant and important when counseling patients who are severely obese with diabetes regarding the surgical options available and long-term health effects,” said Dr. Christine Ren-Fielding, the division chief of bariatric surgery at NYU Langone Health in New York who was not involved in the research.
“I recommend gastric bypass to all patients who have diabetes mellitus because of the greatest chance of them experiencing remission of diabetes,” she told Medical News Today. “However, most patients are frightened of having this operation because of the ramifications of having their intestines re-routed. Therefore, the second best option is sleeve gastrectomy, which may or may not provide them with equal diabetes control but which may achieve the same control as gastric bypass if multimodal therapy is used, specifically GLP-1 agonists.”
Regaining weight after gastric bypass surgery
Although weight regain was not directly associated with type 2 diabetes remission, the researchers said it was an essential factor.
Because participants who regained their weight continued to experience remission of their diabetes, the authors believe this supports the idea that the small intestine plays a major role in managing diabetes.
“In patients who regained weight after bariatric surgery, 75 percent continued to be in diabetes remission if they had gastric bypass versus 34.8 percent if they had sleeve gastrectomy,” Dr. Omar Ghanem, a metabolic surgeon at the Mayo Clinic and a study author, told Medical News Today. “Even after taking patient and diabetes-related factors into account, the odds of diabetes coming back in case of weight recurrence was 5.5 higher if the patient had sleeve rather than bypass.”
“Sixty percent of patients who had gastric bypass and regained more than 100% of the weight they lost (meaning that their weight now is higher than their weight when they had surgery) continued to be in diabetes remission,” Ghanem noted.
“This suggests that bariatric surgeries that bypass the duodenum (like the bypass) have a powerful, weight loss independent effect on diabetes and metabolism,” he added. “These surgeries should still be considered the gold standard for type 2 diabetes therapy in patients with obesity.”
Rerouting the small intestine
The researchers noted that the portion of the small intestine that is bypassed during a gastric bypass surgery is associated with the pancreas and aids digestion.
“The results are interesting but not surprising. The duodenum is associated with the pancreas and with a gastric bypass, the intestine is rerouted,” said Dr. Mir Ali, a bariatric surgeon and medical director of MemorialCare Surgical Weight Loss Center at Orange Coast Medical Center in California who was not involved in the study. “The exciting part is that diabetes remains in remission, even if the person regains the weight.”
“When I counsel my patients about weight loss surgery, I focus on the reason why the person wants the surgery,” Ali told Medical News Today. “For those concerned about better managing their diabetes, I suggest bypass surgery.”
“However, I remind them that weight loss surgery is a tool to help them develop new habits,” he added.
In a meta-analysis published in May 2021 in the The Lancet, researchers reported that there was an increased life expectancy for people with obesity who had a gastric bypass when looking at overall mortality, no matter their baseline diabetes status.
In the study, the overall estimated increase in median life expectancy after surgery was about 6 years.
Limitations to the gastric bypass study
In the new study, researchers noted they were constrained by the data they were given due to the fact they relied on previous research.
They also lacked the ability to include information on lifestyle factors and other behaviors that can contribute to the severity of type 2 diabetes.
The authors noted that this is a retrospective, single-center study. Therefore, the results may not apply to other bariatric programs nationwide.
Despite the limitations, the scientists say their findings can be a vital cornerstone for future research into the recurrence of type 2 diabetes after bariatric surgery.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/stress-response-linked-to-brain-cell-death-alzheimers-parkinsons
Stress response linked to brain cell death in early-onset dementia
A new study challenges the concept that protein aggregates in the brain are the direct cause of cell death in neurodegenerative diseases
The researchers noted the culprit is the body’s inability to turn off the stress response in brain cells.
The findings highlight the potential for using certain drugs to deactivate the brain’s stress response and maintain the activity of a newly identified protein complex, SIFI.
The new insights shift the focus from targeting protein aggregates to managing the stress response mechanism and introduce the potential for new treatment strategies.
Many neurodegenerative conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and Parkinson’s disease (PD), have been linked to the buildup of protein aggregates in the brain, leading researchers to believe that these protein clumps are responsible for the death of brain cells.
As a result, efforts to find treatments focused on dissolving and eliminating these protein formations have largely been unsuccessful.
But now, new research published in Nature challenges this assumption.
The study authors propose the lethal factor for brain cells is not the protein aggregates themselves but the inability of the body to deactivate the stress response in these cells and maintain the activity of a newly identified protein complex known as SIFI.
Their study demonstrates that administering a drug that can halt this stress response can rescue cells affected by a neurodegenerative condition known as early-onset dementia.
Lead researcher Michael Rapé, PhD, professor and head of the Division of Molecular Therapeutics, Dr. K. Peter Hirth Chair of Cancer Biology at UC Berkeley, said this discovery opens up potential new ways to treat neurodegenerative diseases. He explained that we find clumps of proteins, known as aggregates, inside cells in certain diseases.
Prof. Rapé told Medical News Today the new research highlights how “a set of neurodegenerative diseases are connected through their persistent activation of a stress response pathway (the cellular stress response to mitochondrial import defects).”
“The stress response is normally turned off by a dedicated factor — the first example of ‘stress response silencing’ — and mutations in this factor cause early-onset dementia.”
— Prof. Michael Rapé, lead study author
How protein aggregates affect the stress response
Normally, cells can turn off their stress response after it’s no longer needed “by diverting the silencing factor (SIFI) from its stress response targets,” Prof. Rapé said.
However, in these diseases, the aggregates prevent the protein complex SIFI from doing its job, which means the cell’s stress response stays active when it shouldn’t.
The research has shown that we can help cells affected by these aggregates, such as those seen in early onset dementia, by using drugs to restore the normal process of turning off the stress response.
These treatments work even without removing the aggregates.
This finding is crucial because it suggests that the real danger from these aggregates is not the aggregates themselves but how they keep the stress response running.
Keeping the stress response constantly active can harm the cells, which might be a key factor in how these diseases progress.
Dr. David Merrill, PhD, board certified adult and geriatric psychiatrist and director of the Pacific Neuroscience Institute’s Pacific Brain Health Center in Santa Monica, CA, not involved in this research, told MNT that this research “represents a promising new way to treat otherwise incurable neurodegenerative diseases.”
“Turning off the stress response in cells that have otherwise lost that capability is a worthwhile approach to study,” Dr. Merrill explained.
Activated stress response leads to cell death
Diseases that might benefit from this finding include genetic conditions leading to ataxia, which is characterized by a loss of muscle control, as well as early-onset dementia.
The research also highlights that other neurodegenerative disorders, such as Mohr-Tranebjærg syndrome, childhood ataxia, and Leigh syndrome, exhibit similar overactive stress responses and share symptoms with the early-onset dementia studied.
The research team had previously believed that protein aggregates were directly lethal to neurons, perhaps by damaging internal cell structures.
However, their new insights reveal that these aggregates actually block the shutdown of a stress response that cells initially activate to manage malfunctioning proteins.
The perpetual activation of this stress response is what leads to cell death.
The team suggests that this mechanism could also be relevant to more prevalent diseases that feature widespread protein aggregation, like Alzheimer’s disease and frontotemporal dementia, although further research is necessary to explore the impact of stress signaling in these conditions.
Silencing the stress response
New treatment strategies could eventually involve “compounds that turn off the stress response kinase (HRI),” Prof. Rapé explained.
However, the “best way to treat neurodegenerative disease would be to limit aggregation and silence stress response signaling at the same time, reminiscent of combination therapy now in use in oncology,” the study author added.
Further research is needed, explained Dr. Merrill. “We need robust funding and rapid development of clinical trials targeting mechanisms like the one discovered in this work,” he noted.
“There is still much work to be done, but stress response silencing may prove to be a valuable way to slow or stop [the] progression of some neurodegenerative diseases,” Dr. Merrill concluded.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/fasting-like-diet-may-help-reverse-biological-aging-2-5-years
Fasting-like diet may help reverse biological aging by 2.5 years
A study showed a fasting-mimicking diet (FMD) lowered insulin resistance, liver fat, inflammation, and other markers associated with aging.
The diet is based on the consumption of formulated food with controlled levels of dietary macros on days 1–5 and then eating normally for 25 days out of a month.
This fasting-like diet style is not suitable for everyone, including pregnant people and older adults.
Three cycles of a so-called fasting-mimicking diet (FMD) was shown to reduce biomarkers associated with insulin resistance, liver fat in humans, and other markers associated with aging.
USC Leonard Davis School Professor Valter Longo, the senior author of the new study, designed the FMD. This five-day diet is high in unsaturated fats and low in protein, carbohydrates, and calories.
The study examined the diet’s impact in two clinical studies, which included men and women between the ages of 18 and 70. Participants who followed the fasting-mimicking diet went through 3-4 monthly cycles, following the FMD for 5 days and adhering to a normal diet for the other 25 days.
Results showed that patients in the FMD group had less insulin resistance, lower HbA1c results, and better fasting glucose results. They also had less abdominal fat and liver fat, along with improved immune system markers suggesting lower inflammation.
In addition, both clinical studies showed that those who followed the FMD had lowered markers associated with biological aging by 2.5 years on average.
The study was published in Nature.
Fasting 5 days a month
This clinical study, involving 100 participants, indicated that a plant-based fasting-mimicking diet done for 5 days a month could reduce the biological age of people after only three monthly cycles and without changing their lifestyle.
The researchers provided participants with food that had been formulated to contain certain proportions of macro- and micro-nutrients, such as soups, energy bars, snacks, and teas, for days 1-5. These were provided by the company L-Nutra Inc., a company that sells ready-packaged meals for people who are fasting. Two of the authors ‘have equity interest in L-Nutra’, the study read.
The first study carried out by these researchers was published in Metabolic Health and Disease in 2023, and showed similar results.
“The results are particularly convincing because both studies, one done in Los Angeles and one in Tennessee, showed similar effects on the reduction of biological age by 2.5 years as measured by the biome method developed by Morgan Levine at Yale but also showed parallel evidence of rejuvenation or improved function/health of multiple system including the immune system, the liver and the endocrine system as measured by standard methods,” Prof. Longo told Medical News Today.
“The next step is to continue to allow many universities to perform clinical trials to test how cycles of this standardized plant-based FMD, which comes in a box like medicine, can help people stay younger but also prevent or treat diseases like diabetes, CVD, cancer, and Alzheimer’s considering that biological age and multi-system dysfunction are the major risk factors for these diseases.”— Professor Valter Longo
“We also hope that these studies will convince doctors to add the FMD to their toolkit for disease prevention and possibly treatment,” he added.
The benefits of a fasting-mimicking diet
There are numerous ways this diet can improve overall health.
“The FMD does exactly what it is named after- mimics fasting,” said Dr. Nicole Avena, nutrition consultant, assistant professor of neuroscience at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, visiting professor of health psychology at Princeton University, and author of Sugarless.
“This diet is beneficial to balancing blood sugar, improving insulin resistance, and reducing overall inflammation throughout the body. By giving your body time to rest, rather than digest, it allows us to heal inflammation and put energy towards more pressing internal ‘issues,’” she explained.
Many lifestyle diseases, such as diabetes or cardiovascular disease are associated with shortened lifespan.
“These diseases raise inflammation within the body and allow for reactive oxygen species (ROS) to multiply,” Avena explained. “ROS in excess cause disease, therefore aiming for a low-inflammatory lifestyle like FMD is beneficial for aging.”
“Biological age, in particular, is interesting because it is genuinely what age we feel versus what age we really are. The more inflammation and disease we have determines our abilities to perform acts of daily living,” she added.
Risks of a fasting diet
While the clinical consensus is that the FMD is generally safe, there are some people who should not follow this diet.
“If you are pregnant or trying to conceive, and if you are considered an older adult, the FMD is not for you,” Avena said.
“During pregnancy, we have higher metabolic demand, and in old age, we do not have as fast of a metabolism as we do when we are younger,” she added.
During pregnancy, getting enough nutrients is essential for the health of the baby and parent.
For seniors, fasting is usually not recommended, especially if they already have chronic health issues.
How to incorporate fasting into your daily life
Usually, the FMD consists of higher-fat foods while staying relatively lower in protein.
“This is a great time to try a Mediterranean-style diet, which includes beans, olive oils, fatty fish, and whole grains,” said Avena.
“Remember, you are trying to eat under your estimated calorie needs for 5 days while drinking plenty of water. Doing this once a month is the way it is planned, but you should continue to incorporate healthy foods like those included [in] a Mediterranean diet throughout the month,” she explained.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/too-much-vitamin-b3-may-contribute-heart-disease
Too much vitamin B3 may contribute to heart disease, study finds
There are several non-modifiable and preventable risk factors for heart disease.
Researchers recently found that high levels of a common B vitamin called niacin in the body may contribute to cardiovascular disease.
They saw that excess niacin can trigger vascular inflammation, which in turn may lead to atherosclerosis — or plaque buildup on artery walls.
About 20.5 million people around the world died from cardiovascular disease in 2021, making it responsible for a third of all deaths globally.
While there are some unmodifiable risk factors for heart disease, including gender, family history, and ethnicity, there are several preventable causes for cardiovascular disease, including obesity, high cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, smoking, eating an unhealthy diet, and not getting enough physical activity.
Now, researchers from the Cleveland Clinic Lerner Research Institute have added to the list of potentially modifiable risk factors with a new study reporting high levels of a common B vitamin called niacin in the body may contribute to cardiovascular disease.
The study was recently published in the journal Nature Medicine.
Searching for new heart disease pathways
Finding a potential link between niacin and heart disease was not the original intention of this study, Dr. Stanley Hazen, The Jan Bleeksma Chair in Vascular Cell Biology and Atherosclerosis, director of the Center for Cardiovascular Diagnostics & Prevention, and director of the Center for Microbiome & Human Health at the Cleveland Clinic Lerner Research Institute, and lead author of this study told Medical News Today.
“Our initial goal was to identify new pathways that contribute to heart disease. Even when treating cardiovascular disease risk factors to goal (e.g. cholesterol, blood pressure, diabetes, etc.), the majority of events (heart attack, stroke, death) continue to occur, or at best, we reduce the event rate by 50%. This means there are other pathways we are not addressing,” Dr. Hazen explained.
Dr. Hazen said he and his team were looking for compounds in the blood that might contribute to the future development of heart attack, stroke, or death independent of traditional risk factors.
“The compound 4PY was identified that is linked to future CVD events — in a U.S. cohort initially, then replication in a U.S. cohort, and further validation in a European cohort,” he continued.
“We then performed preclinical studies (animal model) and cell-based studies — all of which showed this compound contributes to vascular inflammation. 4PY, it turns out, is a breakdown product made from excess niacin,” he told MNT.
What is niacin?
Niacin — also known as vitamin B-3 — is one of eight different B vitamins.
Niacin helps the body convert foods eaten into energy. It also helps keep the skin healthy and the nervous system running smoothly.
As the body cannot make niacin, it needs to get it from the foods we eat or via a supplement.
For example, the body converts the amino acid tryptophan — found in most animal products, including meat and dairy — into niacin.
Niacin can also naturally be found in legumes, whole grains, nuts, and seeds. And there are also some foods, such as cereals and breads, fortified with niacin.
The body does not store niacin — any excess not used is removed from the body via urine.
Higher levels of 4PY associated with adverse cardiac event
For this study, Dr. Hazen and his team studied the fasting plasma from about 1,100 people with stable cardiac health.
Upon analysis, researchers discovered that higher circulating levels of N1-methyl-4-pyridone-3-carboxamide, or 4PY, were strongly associated with the development of a heart attack, stroke, or other unhealthy cardiac events.
“Our studies found high levels of 4PY in the blood predict future cardiac disease. These new studies help identify a new pathway that contributes to heart disease,” Dr. Hazen said.
However, Dr. Hazen said the main takeaway for readers is not that we should cut out our entire intake of niacin — that’s not a realistic or healthy approach.
“Given these findings, a discussion over whether a continued mandate of flour and cereal fortification with niacin in the U.S. could be warranted. Patients should consult with their doctors before taking over-the-counter supplements and focus on a diet rich in fruit and vegetables while avoiding excess carbohydrates.”— Dr. Stanley Hazen
Excess 4PY triggers vascular inflammation
Scientists also found that 4PY directly triggers vascular inflammation, which can damage blood vessels and lead to a buildup of plaque on artery walls, known as atherosclerosis.
“Atherosclerosis is caused by both high cholesterol and inflammation. We know how to treat the high cholesterol side of the equation, but not the inflammation side. This pathway appears to be a major participant in vascular inflammation,” Dr. Hazen said.
“(Our) research uncovered that excess niacin fuels inflammation (and) cardiovascular disease through a newly discovered pathway. (These) findings are significant because they provide a foundation for potential new interventions and therapeutics to reduce or prevent inflammation.”— Dr. Stanley Hazen
Dr. Hazen said that now with the discovery of this link, there is much more research to do.
“On the one hand, we need to explore what other cardiovascular diseases/phenotypes are linked to 4PY since vascular inflammation is a fundamental contributor to many diseases/phenotypes — e.g. heart failure, stroke, (and) other forms of vascular disease,” he explained.
“Beyond this, we then want to focus on how to disrupt this pathway to leverage the newly gained knowledge to develop a therapeutic,” he added.
Should I stop using niacin supplements?
MNT also spoke with Dr. Cheng-Han Chen, a board certified interventional cardiologist and medical director of the Structural Heart Program at MemorialCare Saddleback Medical Center in Laguna Hills, CA, about this study.
“This study identifies excess niacin, specifically its breakdown metabolite 4PY, as a risk factor for major adverse cardiovascular events such as heart attack and stroke,” Dr. Chen explained.
“While niacin was previously prescribed as a cholesterol-lowering medication, its use has fallen out of favor as multiple studies did not find as much benefit to cardiovascular health as initially thought. This study will put another nail in the coffin for the use of niacin in heart disease.”— Dr. Cheng-Han Chen
Dr. Chen said more studies need to be performed to better understand the dose relationship between niacin supplementation and cardiovascular disease.
“For now, I would caution against routine intake of niacin supplements in the average person,” he continued. “It may be more difficult, however, to avoid niacin-fortified foods given its ubiquity in the food chain; niacin fortification may need to be examined at a higher level as a matter of public policy.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/how-high-blood-pressure-significantly-raises-the-risk-of-death-from-heart-disease
How hypertension significantly raises the risk of death from heart disease
Research from Australia has found that hypertension has been the leading risk factor for death in Australia for the past 30 years.
Experts say the risk of death due to hypertension is likely to be similar in the United States .
Hypertension, also known as high blood pressure, is referred to as the silent killer because many people are unaware they have it and do not always understand how serious the condition can be.
High blood pressure has been identified as the leading risk factor for death in Australia.
Research published today in the journal PLOS ONE reports that high blood pressure, also known as hypertension, was the leading risk factor for cardiovascular deaths and all cause deaths in Australia over the past 30 years.
Experts say those findings are likely to be similar in the United States.
“This is consistent with what we already know in the United States. Hypertension, when inadequately treated, increases an individual’s risk for coronary artery disease, heart failure, kidney failure, stroke, peripheral artery disease, dementia, aortic aneurysms, and that’s just to start,” Dr. Parveen Garg, a cardiologist at Keck Medicine of USC in California who wasn’t involved in the research, told Medical News Today. “Considering the prevalence of hypertension, the under-recognition of this condition, the inadequate treatment of this condition, and health risks it poses, we can expect similar findings in the U.S.”
Researchers noted that Australia lags behind other higher-income countries in hypertension management.
They said dietary factors as well as use of tobacco were among the top risk factors.
Hypertension is a global problem
Experts based in the United States say although the study looked only at the Australian experience, the data is helpful for clinicians around the world.
“As a global cardiovascular community, we are committed to improving health for everyone. To that end, more knowledge is power. Collaborative efforts to understand risk factors, interventions, and outcomes can certainly inform approaches both in the U.S. and globally,” Dr. Megan Kamath, a cardiologist at UCLA Health in California who wasn’t involved in the research, told Medical News Today.
“The latest data from the [Centers for Disease Control and Prevention] suggests that we have significant room for improvement in controlling hypertension,” she added. “Only about 1 in 4 adults in the U.S. have controlled hypertension. One of the biggest challenges with hypertension is that it is often silent and people don’t know that they have it until they have an event of some sort. We need to continue focusing efforts on prevention first, early detection, and then follow up to maintain control in order to have improvement in our population health-based efforts.”
In the United States, hypertension is considered a blood pressure reading at or above 130/80mmHg.
Stage two hypertension is considered a reading at or above 140/90mmHg.
A normal blood pressure is less than 120/80 mmHg.
Almost half of U.S. adults have high blood pressure
Nearly half of U.S. adults have hypertension. That’s close to 120 million people.
Only 22% have their hypertension under control. Another 45% of U.S. adults with uncontrolled hypertension have a blood pressure reading of 140/90 mmHg or higher. That amounts to 37 million people.
Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention suggests that in 2021, hypertension was a primary cause or contributing cause of nearly 700,000 deaths in the United States.
“The way I would kind of think about hypertension is we use the term ‘primordial risk factor’ and what we mean by that is that it’s a risk factor that can result in diseases that may have even a greater consequence, like coronary heart disease, or stroke,” Dr. Manoj Kesarwani, an interventional cardiologist at UC Davis Health in California who wasn’t involved in the research, told Medical News Today. “And so in that context, controlling hypertension will help prevent patients from having cardiovascular disease, which is the number one killer in the United States.”
The experts who spoke with Medical News Today say that controlling hypertension is a challenge not just on an individual level but at a population level too.
“On an individual level it can be difficult to control blood pressure due to poor lifestyle choices, limited education, and poor adherence or follow up with medical recommendations once a diagnosis has been made. On a population level, there are several more challenges, including access to care and social determinants of health playing into the difficulty of controlling blood pressure at this level,” Kamath said.
Adding to the challenge is the reality that most people are unaware they may be impacted by hypertension.
“Hypertension is not in the mind and consciousness of everyone, Kesarwani said. “For example, I had a patient that I took care of in the hospital [who had] suffered a stroke. He was only 38 years old and didn’t know that he had poorly controlled hypertension. And you think, well, was there an opportunity to intervene?”
How to reduce high blood pressure
Limiting alcohol intake, not smoking, maintaining a healthy weight, and being physically active can help prevent hypertension and help manage it.
However, experts say despite hypertension being a leading risk factor, people don’t always understand how serious it can be and how important management is.
“This disease is referred to as a ‘silent killer’ and, well, that really summarizes the problem, Garg said. “Hypertension is asymptomatic. Most people do not know they have it. And when they are informed they do not understand the need to fix it as they feel ‘fine.’ This condition is chronic and it often takes decades for overt disease to manifest. An emphasis on the health risks of hypertension to individuals when they are in earlier stages and a greater urgency to treat this with improved lifestyle measures and medications are vital.”
Data from the World Health Organization shows that nearly 1.3 billion adults around the world have hypertension and nearly half have no idea they are living with the condition.
“Hypertension is really a global phenomenon. We’re seeing it in Australia. We’re seeing it in the United States. We’re seeing it in countries like Mexico. You’re not able to escape hypertension, regardless of where you live,” Kesarwani said.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/weight-loss-drugs-may-help-lower-complication-risk-after-hip-replacement
Weight loss drugs may help lower complication risk after hip replacement
Hip replacements are common in conditions such as osteoarthritis, and obesity is a well-known risk factor.
People who have obesity and receive a hip replacement are more likely to experience complications after the procedure than those at a healthy weight.
New research reports people taking semaglutide — the active ingredient in Wegovy and Ozempic — had similar or improved postoperative outcomes after a total hip replacement than those who did not take the drug.
About 1 million people around the world have a total hip arthroplasty — also known as a total hip replacement — each year.
People who have osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis may need a total hip replacement, as well as anyone experiencing damage to their hip joint.
As with any surgery, there are some risks of complications. Past studies show that people who have obesity and receive a total hip arthroplasty are more likely to experience complications compared to those who are at a healthy weight.
For this reason, doctors may suggest a person who has obesity lose some weight before having hip replacement surgery.
Now, two studies recently presented at the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons’ 2024 Annual Meeting examine the use of semaglutide — the active ingredient in Wegovy FDA approved for weight loss, and type 2 diabetes medication Ozempic — in people who undergo a total hip arthroplasty.
Researchers reported that people taking semaglutide had similar or improved postoperative outcomes after a total hip replacement to those who did not take the drug.
Why focus on semaglutide?
According to Dr. Matthew L. Magruder, a third-year resident at Maimonides Health in Brooklyn, NY and lead author of one of the presented studies, with the approval of semaglutide for the treatment of obesity by the FDA in 2021, and the surrounding media attention, it was clear that this medication was going to explode in popularity.
“Given that many of our patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty [have obesity], it is inevitable that a growing percentage will be taking it in the perioperative period,” Dr. Magruder explained to Medical News Today.
“Therefore, we figured it would be important to review the data we already had on its effect (on) total hip arthroplasty. It will be increasingly important to understand the effect of this medication on our patients as orthopedic surgeons,” he said.
“In particular, for patients who [have obesity] and in chronic pain due to hip osteoarthritis, it can be very hard to lose weight in order to be indicated for total hip arthroplasty,” added Dr. Daniel Pereira, an orthopedic surgery resident at Washington University Barnes-Jewish Hospital and co-lead author of the second presented study.
“[Having obesity] and [being] in pain makes it much harder to burn calories through traditional means such as exercise or calorie cutting. However, the high risk for complications for [patients with obesity] receiving total hip replacements makes it so that many of these patients do not receive this procedure — for good reason.” — Dr. Daniel Pereira
“Thus, we need to understand if there were any effects on the outcomes following total hip arthroplasty in patients who took semaglutide when compared to controls,” Dr. Pereira told MNT.
No difference in postsurgical complications
Dr. Pereira’s study examined hip replacement postoperative complications among patients with obesity who used semaglutide compared to those who did not use the medication.
Scientists recruited 616 people in each cohort with an average BMI of 35.5. Upon analysis, the researchers found postoperative complications after a hip replacement — including hip arthroplasty revision, prosthesis infection, and surgical site infections — were similar between people have obesity taking semaglutide compared to those not using the drug.
Dr. Pereira said they were not surprised by these findings.
“We hypothesized that patients who were on semaglutide and received total hip replacements would have the same outcomes, for better or worse, than those who maintained or lost weight by traditional means — we found this to be the case,” he explained.
“The implications are obvious — patients who otherwise would be at a higher risk profile for this surgery can take semaglutide to lose weight and be at a better chance at an equivalent outcome as anyone else. They do not need to receive bariatric surgery or go through other more rigorous means of weight loss in order to be indicated for the procedure,” he added.
Lower rates of prosthetic joint infection with semaglutide
Dr. Magruder’s research evaluated whether diabetic patients taking semaglutide at the time of their hip replacement surgery had fewer medical complications, fewer implant-related complications, fewer readmissions, and lower costs than those who were not taking the medication.
Researchers reported people with diabetes taking semaglutide had lower rates of readmission within 90 days of their total hip arthroplasty and lower rates of prosthetic joint infection compared to the control group.
“These findings were not expected but make sense given the medication’s mechanism of action,” Dr. Magruder explained. “Two of its known actions are increasing insulin secretion, thereby decreasing blood glucose levels and slowing gastric emptying, thereby decreasing caloric intake and decreasing weight.”
“Given that poorly controlled diabetes and obesity are independent risk factors for prosthetic joint infection, it makes sense that this medication’s use might decrease its risk after total hip arthroplasty,” he added. “Furthermore, with less prosthetic joint infections, it would follow that there would be fewer readmissions.”
Scientists also found those taking semaglutide did not show statistically significant higher rates of complications compared to those not taking the drug. There was also no difference between the two groups for any other implant-related complication, lengths of stay, same-day surgical costs, or 90-day episode of care costs.
Semaglutide may reduce hip surgery complications
After reviewing these studies, Dr. Timothy Gibson, a board-certified orthopedic surgeon and medical director of the MemorialCare Joint Replacement Center at Orange Coast Medical Center in Fountain Valley, CA, told MNT these findings gave him both feelings of excitement and relief.
“It is reassuring to know that patients with obesity and diabetes who took semaglutide prior to hip replacement surgery do not have higher risks, and in some circumstances have lower risks of complication,” Dr. Gibson continued. “Obesity is a known issue for those undergoing hip replacement surgery. We encourage patients with a very high BMI to lose weight before proceeding with surgery to improve their safety profile.”
“Most, however, are unsuccessful, and often the surgery is never performed,” he added. “This new class of medications may open the door for many more [patients with obesity] to have the opportunity to enjoy the benefits of this typically very successful surgery and to resume a more pain-free and active lifestyle.”
MNT also spoke with Dr. Gregg R. Klein, vice-chair of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey, about these two studies.
Dr. Klein also expressed excitement over these research results.
“Historically, it is well-known that obesity and poor diabetic control have been significant risk factors for patients undergoing total hip replacement,” he detailed. “It has been a challenge for surgeons to optimize a patient with these conditions.”
“The use of semaglutide has become another way that physicians and surgeons can help patients treat obesity and lose weight before surgery. Clinically we have seen patients lose a significant amount of weight using these medications. Hopefully, the weight loss will translate to less complications and better outcomes,” Dr. Klein added.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/healthy-lifestyle-choices-such-as-exercise-and-sleep-can-lower-ibs-risk
Healthy lifestyle choices such as exercise and sleep can lower IBS risk
Healthy lifestyles, specifically not smoking, a high activity level, and sleeping 7 to 9 hours per night, might decrease the risk of developing irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).
Researchers note that as a person’s number of healthy activities increases, the risk of developing IBS decreases.
Although their study focused on the risk of developing IBS, they say the same concepts may apply to people who already have the condition.
Healthy lifestyles choices, incuding not smoking, a high level of activity, and sleeping 7 to 9 hours per night, are strongly linked with a decreased risk of developing irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), according to a study published today in the journal Gut.
In their study, researchers looked at the medical and diet information of 64,268 people from the UK Biobank with an average age of 55 who completed at least two 24-hour dietary recalls.
The scientists looked at five healthy behaviors:
The researchers analyzed the engagement of the participants with these five behaviors and found:
The scientists reported that the higher the number of behaviors a participant engaged in, the lower their risk of developing IBS.
“This study evaluated five independent risk factors for the development of IBS, which we still don’t have accurate etiology or effective treatment options,” said Dr. James Lee, a gastroenterologist with Providence St. Joseph Hospital in California who was not involved in the study. “[The] study was well designed, and statistical analysis was thorough. This seems to be the first study in combining all five risk factors such as smoking, drinking alcohol, sleep quality, [and] exercise as well as proper diet in preventing the development of IBS symptoms in the [United Kingdom].”
“Indeed, there was compelling evidence that following optimal habits among three to five of these risk factors reduced the incidence of IBS up to 42 percent in a prospective study.” Lee told Medical News Today. “This study was not designed to identify the cause or treatment of IBS but help to prevent the development of IBS recommending lifestyle changes as listed.”
“Some of the salient points in the study is that of the 64,268 participants, IBS developed only in 961 participants (1.5 percent),” Lee noted. “These patients did not have IBS symptoms at the baseline and tended to be older. When we consider up to 10 percent of the general population suffers from IBS, there could be a selection bias, and perhaps these people have different mechanisms of IBS than the general population. This could mean there should be some limitation on whom we can apply these principles.”
How a healthy lifestyle can lower IBS risk
Researchers report that engaging in one of the five healthy lifestyle behaviors resulted in a 21% risk reduction, two resulted in a 36% lower risk, and three to five resulted in a 42% lower risk.
The three most critical healthy behaviors were never smoking, a high level of physical activity, and getting a good night’s sleep.
“In my practice, it is pretty clear that people who come to me with IBS usually (but not always) have issues with diet or sleep or anxiety or generally irregular lifestyles, said Dr. Aditya Sreenivasan, a gastroenterologist at Northwell Lenox Hill Hospital in New York who was not involved in the study. “It is helpful to see actual data to support this.”
“Once a person has a diagnosis of IBS, the first thing I try to address are lifestyle habits that may be causing or at least significantly exacerbating their symptoms,” Sreenivasan told Medical News Today. “So though this study was about developing rather than treating IBS, I think it’s reasonable to take these conclusions and apply them to treatment of IBS.”
“I usually focus on diet (often referring to our dietician) and maybe exercise if constipation is part of their issue,” he added. “I often put IBS in the context of their overall health, but I don’t routinely ask specifically about sleep, for instance. I probably will start doing more of that now.”
The researchers point out that most studies focus on lifestyle factors for decreasing symptoms of IBS. In the current study, the scientists chose to look at preventing the onset of the disease.
Stress management is essential in IBS management
Several studies – like one published in 2022 – report that stress plays a large role in the development of IBS.
The new study does not list stress management as one of the behaviors that can lower this risk.
“This [new] study provides excellent research and data, and following this many people for over 12 years is impressive, but it doesn’t resonate with me,” said Dr. Ashkan Farhadi, a gastroenterologist at MemorialCare Orange Coast Medical Center in California who was not involved in the current research. “Some factors are up for interpretation, For example, what is a healthy diet? What constitutes vigorous exercise? I think when there is a large pool of participants, researchers can see connections when there is none.”
“I think stress management is essential,” Farhadi told Medical News Today. “Take a meditative walk. Exercise for stress relief. If something aggravates your symptoms, don’t eat it. This study offers great information for researchers to learn more about IBS, but it doesn’t have information physicians can use to better patient care.”
“Chronic stress can trigger or worsen IBS symptoms, likely through the gut-brain axis,” added Anne Danahy, RDN, a registered dietician nutritionist practicing in Arizona who was not involved in the study. “Therefore, any lifestyle strategies aimed at reducing stress are helpful. These include mindfulness meditation, yoga, tai chi, exercise (especially outdoors in the sunshine and fresh air), spending more time with friends or family, or working with a behavioral health therapist. Some research also suggests a link between IBS and an unbalanced gut microbiota (known as dysbiosis).”
“Many lifestyle factors influence the mix of microbes in your gut,” Danahy told Medical News Today. “Besides chronic stress, a Western-style diet high in ultra-processed foods, excess sugar and alcohol, poor sleep quality, inactivity, and use of certain medications (prescription and over the counter) can disrupt the gut microbiome, so again, strategies aimed at moderating these can certainly be helpful.”
Choosing a healthy lifestyle when you have IBS
“I believe a holistic approach that addresses lifestyle changes to relieve symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) can be more effective than medication,” said Tatiana Ridley, a holistic nutritionist, health coach, yoga teacher, and founder of Healthylicious Bliss. “That said, there is no one-size-fits-all approach to IBS, and a combination of lifestyle changes and medication can provide significant relief for some people.
“By identifying and avoiding triggers such as certain foods, like FODMAPs, caffeine, alcohol, and spicy foods, individuals can alleviate symptoms of bloating, diarrhea, constipation, gas, and pain,” Ridley, who was not involved in the study, told Medical News Today.
However, Ridley said she understands that IBS can be hard to manage because triggers and symptoms can be different from person to person.
“IBS is a complicated condition because there doesn’t appear to be a single cause and there is no one-size-fits-all way of managing it,” Danahy added. “However, lifestyle does seem to play an important role.”
Danahy suggests that if you have IBS, work with a dietitian who specializes in gut health because diet is a cornerstone of treatment.
She notes that diet directly affects the gut microbiota as well as sleep, stress, and other factors.
Limitations to the IBS study
This was an observational study, so the researchers could not determine cause and effect.
The scientists also relied on self-reported information, which might not be accurate. The participants were 55 and older, so the results might not apply to younger people.
Finally, it was impossible to account for lifestyle changes during the 12-year monitoring period.
“As mentioned in the paper, depression and physical activities were inversely related,” said Lee. “These factors could have an impact on analysis. Osteoarthritis also can limit physical activities and its impact on the study in these elderly population was also listed in the paper as one of the few limitations of the study.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/blood-test-predict-heart-attack-risk-within-6-months
A simple blood test may be able to predict heart attack risk within 6 months
Scientists have been looking at using blood tests to predict the likelihood of a first heart attack.
The authors of a new study identified about 90 molecules that may serve as biomarkers of a cardiac event.
One of the strongest indicators of an imminent heart attack is the brain natriuretic peptide — a diuretic — with which the heart itself may seek to lower blood volume through increased urination.
Blood tests already exist to detect this peptide.
Roughly every 40 seconds, someone in the U.S. has a myocardial infarction or heart attack. Heart attacks are the leading and growing cause of death globally, with over a million fatalities each year in the U.S. Yet, they typically occur without warning to the people who get them.
A new study from researchers at Uppsala University in Sweden identifies blood biomarkers that could be used to provide an “early warning” system that may allow time for preventive measures before a first heart attack.
Researchers are also working on an online tool that can be used by anybody who knows their current LDL and HDL cholesterol numbers, waist circumference, height, and a few other details, which can predict the likelihood you will have your first heart attack within the next six months.
The authors of the study examined blood samples from 169,053 European individuals without prior cardiovascular disease. They compared the blood of 420 people who experienced their first heart attack within six months of its collection against the blood of 1,598 healthy individuals.
About 90 molecules were identified in the study as biomarkers of an imminent heart attack.
The study is published in Nature Cardiovascular Research.
91 molecules identified in blood
Of the 91 identified molecules, the study’s senior author, Dr. Johan Sundström, said, “These could be root causes or mediators in causal pathways — or they could be innocent bystanders — and they would all need further research to determine which is which.”
The new tool — being based on the type of blood test one would get at a checkup — does not actually involve the newly identified suite of molecules.
Dr. Sundström recalled, “We were initially surprised to see that none of the newly identified molecules could beat the already available ones. But that is good news, as those markers are readily available in healthcare today.”
Of the 91, brain natriuretic peptide was the molecule that was most consistently associated with an imminent myocardial infarction. “It is a molecule,” said Dr. Sundström, “that is produced only by the heart muscle cells, as a response to excess strain to the heart.”
”[Brain natriuretic peptide] is a diuretic molecule, so it is quite amazingly organized that the heart itself can send out a cure for volume overload, increased diuresis, [production of urine],” he said.
Cardiologist Dr. Jayne Morgan, who was not involved in the study, pointed out the weak association the study found between a CACS (Coronary Artery Calcium Score) and brain natriuretic peptide, noting that CACS is often used as a long-term, 10-year predictor of heart risk.
Test does not factor in genetic risk
Dr. Sundström noted that the test is designed for the research community, and potentially healthcare workers, for now.
Cardiologist Dr. Cheng-Han Chen, who was also not involved in the study, noted, “We do not have a way to evaluate for ‘imminent risk’ as this study is attempting. Such a test could help us identify the patients at greatest need for further discriminatory testing.”
“We plan to allow people to compare their own risk to an average person of the same age and sex, and make the web interface more available to the public,” said Dr. Sundström.
Dr. Morgan noted that the study constitutes very preliminary data.
“Although age is a predictive variable,” explained Dr. Morgan, “at what age should screening begin as well as how often screening should be repeated are yet to be determined. This is also true of male sex, waist circumference, etc. as predictive features of the nomogram.”
The test currently also includes the ability to enter MIMI/UKBB values. These are abbreviations for “Markers of Imminent Myocardial Infarction” and the “UK Biobank,” respectively. They are included to help the tool take into account the medical populations to which individuals belong based on existing anonymized data.
“The MIMI,” said Dr. Morgan, “is a cohort of ‘cardiovascular disease-free individuals in six European general population-based cohorts who developed a myocardial infarction within the first six months after the baseline examination.’ The UKB is a large biomedical database that can be curated and accessed by researchers.”
Dr. Morgan also noted with interest that the tool does not include Lp(a) —Lipoprotein (a) — values, a genetic risk factor for heart disease. “Clinical trials are underway now in the hopes of developing therapies to directly address elevated levels of Lp(a),” she reported.
How to reduce heart attack risk
Dr. Chen described how often a person might get checked using the new tool if it is adopted. He noted that for otherwise healthy individuals, his practice currently checks cholesterol every four to six years.
“However, he said, “people at increased risk for cardiovascular disease should have their levels checked more often, at least once a year. This proposed testing model, if eventually incorporated into clinical practice, may require blood draws every six months.”
Dr. Sundström told Uppsala University News that the period leading up to a heart attack is crucial. He gave some examples, such as the risk of a heart attack doubling during the month after a divorce, how the risk of a fatal cardiac heart event increases five-fold during the week after a cancer diagnosis.
If there are indications that a heart attack is imminent, said Dr. Morgan, an “intervention” type of prevention would be warranted.
In dire cases, said Dr. Morgan, “PCA (percutaneous coronary angioplasty) would be the gold standard.”
Where there is a less imminent threat, or a “warning, then aggressive measures such as diet, weight loss, medications, chronic disease management and control could possibly be undertaken,” Dr. Morgan said.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/how-weekend-warriors-can-lose-weight-by-working-out-only-1-or-2-days-per-week
How weekend warriors can lose weight by working out only 1-2 days per week
Researchers are reporting that people with little time for exercise can still lose weight with one or two sessions a week.
They say these “weekend warriors” in fact can lose as much weight as those exercising all week if they put in the time.
Experts say diet is a good starting point for weight loss and can be controlled all week.
It’s said a little bit can go a long way.
Researchers in China are saying, in fact, that this adage can apply to exercise.
A study published today in the journal Obesity reports that people can still lose weight while exercising only once or twice a week.
The study authors say their research is the first to look at the connection between patterns of physical activity and objectively measured fat tissue mass.
The authors point out the World Health Organization recommends adults get at least 150 minutes of moderate physical activity a week. That can also mean 75 minutes of vigorous activity or an equivalent combination of high and lower intensities.
However, many people find it challenging to carve out enough time to meet the recommendation because they have busy schedules.
Details from the ‘weekend warriors’ study
In their study, researchers looked at data from more than 9,600 people, ages 20 to 59, in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey recorded from 2011 to 2018.
The researchers said they found that people they labeled as “weekend warriors” — those who jam exercise into one or two days — can also lose weight similar to those exercising on a more regular basis.
That is, if they hit the recommended time goals.
“The weekend warrior pattern is worth promoting in individuals who cannot meet the recommended frequency in current guidelines,” said Lihua Zhang, a study co-author and a healthcare scientist at Fuwai Hospital, National Center for Cardiovascular Diseases, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China, in a statement.
Zhang said office employees, bus drivers, and other workers who sit for many hours during the work day can benefit from these longer weekend workouts.
“Those people are struggling to catch up in their exercise plan in daily life to offset the hazard of a sedentary lifestyle but have less free time to get to the gym,” she said. “Our study could offer them an alternative choice to keep fit.”
She suggested activities such as running, climbing, hiking, and cycling.
Scientists used a dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) — a non-invasive and accessible body composition scan— and anthropometric measures to examine participants’ abdominal fat and general adiposity (fat levels overall).
Participants’ activity levels were assessed from the Global Physical Activity Questionnaire and classified as inactive, weekend warrior, and regularly active. The research team used survey linear regression models to assess associations between physical activity patterns and adiposity indicators.
The results showed that 772 people followed the weekend warrior pattern and 3,277 followed the regularly active pattern. Compared to the 5,580 people classified as inactive, the weekend warrior and regular active groups had lower DXA-measured abdominal adiposity, waist circumference, whole-body fat mass, and body mass index.
The two groups were also younger, more likely to be non-Hispanic and/or white, have higher levels of education, and less likely to be unemployed or have diabetes or hypertension.
The researchers said it was notable that the weekend warriors’ workouts were of higher intensity and longer duration, which correlated with even lower abdominal fat.
How to exercise a little at a time
Dr. Mir Ali, a bariatric surgeon and medical director of MemorialCare Surgical Weight Loss Center at Orange Coast Medical Center in California who was not involved in the study, told Medical News Today there’s a solution for those who don’t want to wait all week to exercise.
“Exercise at work can be broken into short segments whenever there is a break, alternatively, using a pedal device while sitting or a standing desk with a walking device,” Ali said.
“Just as important as the duration or intensity is the consistency based on this study. If you have only 1 to 2 hours a week, then consistently exercising every week is beneficial,” he added.
Sheri Berger, RD, CDCES, a registered dietitian nutritionist and certified diabetes care and education specialist for the online health site Health Insiders, told Medical News Today that exercises such as vigorous running, climbing, hiking, and cycling will yield more fat loss, but people can still find get results with lower intensity exercise they can try squeezing in during the week.
“You can still see results with moderate exercise like brisk walking and light cycling when it is at longer durations,” said Berger, who was not involved in the study. “Taking a 15 to 30-minute break-time walk, parking the car farther from the door, or choosing the stairs instead of the elevator during the workday are activities that accumulate and can help us to reach the recommendation of 150 minutes of moderate activity per the 2020-2025 Dietary Guidelines for Americans.”
She also recommended trying to build up performance, even in a short amount of time.
“If you only have one or two hours a week to exercise, gradually build on your intensity for better results,” Berger said. “Start out with something you enjoy such as brisk walking, a Zumba class, or a spin class at a lower intensity, and increasing intensity over time.
Calum Fraser, a director at Wilston Physio, Advantage Healthcare & Physiotherapy, Body Tone Pilates as well as a part of The Wellness Team at Physiotherapy Associates in Brisbane, Australia, told Medical News Today even moderate exercise has benefits beyond just weight loss.
“Exercise does help in a weight loss journey as well as other health benefits,” said Fraser, who was not involved in the study. “The key consideration is what is the person trying to achieve and what age group are they. Are they just looking to lose as much weight as fast as they can?”
“If they can only fit in two training sessions a week then they need to consider a few factors,” he added. “You can lose weight with weight training. Two heavy sessions a week will stimulate metabolism to feed those growing muscles and will require significant amounts of energy to help fuel these muscles.”
Fraser noted that enjoyment is an important part of the equation.
“The most important form of exercise is a form of exercise the participant likes because it doesn’t matter if someone trains five days a week for a few months and then stops. Because they will be beaten every time by a person who consistently puts in two hard training sessions every week without fail,” he said.
Diet is also key to weight loss
Dr. Morton Tavel, a clinical professor emeritus at the Indiana University School of Medicine who also was not involved in the study, told Medical News Today that another way for busy people to lose weight is to eliminate sugary drinks.
“A 12-ounce can of Coca-Cola contains 140 calories and roughly 10 teaspoons of sugar,” Tavel said. “You could probably jog this off in about 25 to 30 minutes [but] the calories used up would contain nothing of real food value.”
“Unless one is willing to engage in strenuous exercise every day for rather lengthy periods, losing weight this way alone is, for most of us, an ‘exercise’ in futility,” Tavel said.
Dan Gallagher, a registered dietitian with Aegle Nutrition who wasn’t involved in the study, told Medical News Today for those without much time, diet is key.
“You need to make sure that your diet is the focus of your weight loss program,” Gallagher said. “When you exercise more often, you can create a bit of a buffer, if you will, for times when your diet isn’t completely on point. If you’re not going to work out more often, then you need to make sure your diet is on point.”
Gallagher said eliminating sugar and processed foods is a good first step.
“You can keep yourself in a calorie deficit if weight loss is your goal,” he noted. “When you do work out, concentrate on strength training. Any exercises that are going to help you build lean muscle mass will help you burn more calories. Muscle demands more calories to maintain than fat.”
Gallagher said there are also ways to make strength training a cardio workout as well.
“You can also get a great cardio workout while strength training if you make your rest periods very short,” he advised. “You’ll get the most bang for your buck.”

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/herpes-diagnosis-link-double-risk-developing-dementia
Herpes may double the risk of developing dementia
Anyone who has received a herpes diagnosis may be twice as likely to develop dementia than people who have not, according to a new study from Uppsala University in Sweden.
HSV-1, the type of the virus that causes cold sores or oral herpes, is most associated with the risk of dementia.
Nearly 80% of the adult population in Sweden and 57% to 80% of adults in the United States carries that type.
The study, which was published in the Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease, followed 1,000 70-year-old subjects for 15 years and confirmed previous research about the associations with the herpes virus and dementia.
Herpes results from infection with the herpes simplex virus (HSV), of which there are two types. Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) causes oral herpes, affecting the mouth and surrounding skin but also potentially the genital region. Herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) typically causes genital herpes and is usually sexually transmitted. Nearly 572,000 people have HSV-2 infections each year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Dementia is a wide term for cognitive decline disorders like Alzheimer’s disease and vascular dementia. It is associated with aging but is not a usual part of getting older.
Erika Vestin, a lead author of the study and a Ph.D. student at Uppsala University, told Medical News Today that the research confirms prior knowledge about the connections between dementia and herpes, but causality is still not concrete.
“We still do not have answers regarding causal mechanisms of this association, whether the virus causes the disease or if there is an indirect link,” Vestin said.
“Further, the association remains to be studied in different social and ethnic groups, and potential effects of herpes drugs on dementia risk need to be investigated in pharmaceutical drug studies,” she added.
How common is herpes and dementia?
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), more than 55 million people worldwide have dementia and nearly 10 million more will receive a diagnosis of dementia each year. By 2030, it is estimated that the number of people with dementia will reach 78 million.
HSV, which remains for a person throughout their life, is quite common. According to the WHO, around 67% of people under age 50 globally have an HSV-1 infection, and 13% under age 50 have an HSV-2 infection., and 13% under age 50 have an HSV-2 infection. Most people with HSV-2 may not know they have it: Approximately 87.4% of people between the ages of 14 and 49 with genital herpes do not have a clinical diagnosis.
Up to 80% of the adult population in Sweden may have contracted HSV-1 at some point. The statistics are similar in the United States: 57% to 80% of adults here have oral herpes.
The herpes virus causes sores or blisters in or around the mouth or genitals, alongside other symptoms. There is no cure for herpes, but treatment can help manage symptoms and reduce the likelihood of outbreaks recurring and transmission to partners.
What is the link between herpes and dementia?
Vestin said that the oral form of herpes is most likely the main factor in any connection between HSV and dementia, but that the virus itself can complicate those connections.
“The main culprit seems to be HSV-1, which commonly infects the oral region,” Vestin said. “However, HSV-1 and HSV-2 can both infect either the oral or the genital region, which is important to have in mind when these studies are conducted.”
Dr. Monica Gandhi, MPH, an infectious diseases specialist with the University of California, San Francisco, told MNT that the study does not prove causality.
“There could be important differences between those with or without herpes simplex virus (HSV) IgG status (past exposure) and those who developed dementia or not. It is difficult to control all confounders that have been traditionally associated with dementia (like diabetes, hypertension, history of stroke or myocardial infarction), and the authors state that their entire cohort had relatively low rates of these conditions,” Dr. Gandhi said.
“The authors did not find an association between treatment for HSV and dementia, which would be an interesting observation to see in another study if we wanted to be more convinced of a causal link,” Dr. Gandhi added.
“A good matched study where a group is matched on almost all possible confounders for dementia (hypertension, diabetes, smoking, other risk factors) to another group with the same risk factors but only one difference (HSV IgG status) could be helpful in providing further evidence,” she added.
Should I be worried if I have a herpes diagnosis?
Vestin suggested that getting diagnosed and treated with widely available drugs for the herpes virus would benefit anyone who does have it and indicated that previous research backs this.
“There are indications from large register studies that herpesvirus drug use may be associated with a decreased risk of dementia among symptomatic herpes simplex carriers. However, there are no pharmaceutical trials to confirm this. For now, herpes simplex carriers will have to rely on the same advice as the rest of the population, involving mainly lifestyle factors and cardiovascular health,” she said.
Dr. Gandhi said that the rates of herpes and dementia are different enough — and there are wildly divergent factors for any individual’s susceptibility — to warrant some caution around the study’s findings.
“The prevalence of HSV-1 and HSV-2 is very high in the population (up to 80%) and the rate of dementia is fortunately much lower. Traditional risk factors for strokes (which can induce dementia) include diabetes, hypertension and smoking, so keeping those factors controlled can be helpful for a person’s individual risk of dementia,” Dr. Gandhi said.
“Given how common herpes virus infection is [in] young people, I would not let this study concern you too much,” she added.

https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/weight-loss-drugs-help-lower-depression-and-anxiety-risk
Can weight loss drugs actually help lower depression and anxiety risk?
GLP-1 medications such as Wegovy and Ozempic were associated with a reduction in diagnoses of depression and anxiety in a new report.
The report observed the connection in the medical records of over three million people with diabetes and nearly one million taking GLP-1 drugs for weight loss.
The results of the report suggest a mental health benefit for this class of drugs beyond diabetes health and weight control
GLP-1 agonist diabetes drugs have found a second use as weight-loss medications. Now, a new study from electronic medical records company Epic reports that their use also corresponds to a reduction in depression and anxiety.
Five GLP-1 drugs were linked to reduced depression and anxiety in people with diabetes, compared with people who were not taking GLP-1 medications.
This group of medications is based on related compounds, all of which are glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP) receptor agonists that mimic the natural GLP-1 intestinal hormone. In doing so, they produce insulin after eating, helping to reduce blood sugar. They also slow the emptying of the stomach and promote a sensation of being full, leading to a reduction in appetite.
The medications are generally injectable, although oral versions are also available.
The most well-known GLP-1 drugs, Wegovy and Ozempic, are based on semaglutide. Other GLP-1 agonist compounds tested in the study are liraglutide, dulaglutide, and exenatide, as well as tirzepatide that mimics a second intestinal hormone, gastric inhibitory polypeptide, or GIP, in addition to GLP-1.
People with diabetes taking tirzepatide were 65% less likely to be diagnosed with depression and 60% less likely to have anxiety, compared to people not taking GLP-1 drugs. People with diabetes who were taking semaglutide were 45% less likely to be diagnosed with depression, and 44% less likely to have anxiety.
Two of the drugs, semaglutide and liraglutide, were assessed as regards depression and anxiety in people without diabetes.
For people who do not have diabetes, only semaglutide was associated with a reduction in depression and anxiety, compared to people who were not on GLP-1 medications.
There was no statistically significant improvement for people taking liraglutide.
The study was undertaken by Epic Research, an investigative branch of Epic, one of the largest holders of electronic medical records in the U.S. Two teams of in-house researchers analyzed anonymized patient data, coming to the same conclusions.
The study analyzed patient records for 3,081,254 people with diabetes and 929,174 without diabetes, who were taking the drugs for weight loss. The researchers factored in a range of variables to eliminate confounding influences on their results.
The study is published by Epic Research.
Can Ozempic treat depression?
“The results suggest a potentially new therapeutic benefit of GLP-1 medications beyond their established use for glucose control and weight management,” said general practitioner with Zava, Dr. Kathryn Basford, who was not involved in the research.
Dr. Crystal Wyllie, also a general practitioner with Zava, who was also not involved in the research, noted that the study “goes some way in addressing concerns raised by the FDA [U.S. Federal Food and Drug Administration] about depression and suicidal ideation associated with semaglutide, as it suggests that these concerns may not be directly linked to these specific weight-loss treatments.”
In early January 2024, the FDA released an update regarding their investigation of a connection between GLP-1 drugs and suicidal ideation.
“Our preliminary evaluation has not found evidence that use of these medicines causes suicidal thoughts or actions,” the agency concluded.
Dr. Mir Ali, medical director at the MemorialCare Surgical Weight Loss Center, who was not involved in the study, was not surprised by the findings, saying, “There were only a few case reports and there’s hundreds of thousands of patients on these medications.”
One question left unanswered for now is whether the reduction in depression and anxiety diagnoses are a direct result of the medication.
Dr. Basford said the study “doesn’t definitively clarify whether these improvements are due to the biochemical effects of the medicines or are a result of improved self-esteem. I would be interested to see further research in this area.”
The impact of GLP-1 drugs on weight loss culture
With acknowledged benefits for people with diabetes, having first been approved for use in 2005, GLP-1 drugs for weight loss may re-position overweight and obesity in a clearly medical context, with the potential of reducing the historical stigma associated with these conditions.
“It’s a paradigm shift that we’re thinking of obesity not as a failure on the patient’s part to control their habits, but more of a chronic disease, and treating it like any other chronic disease such as diabetes or high blood pressure, arthritis, or other diseases that people readily will say is not the patient’s fault,” Dr. Ali said.
“My hope is that these treatments will allow patients to live healthier, happier lives — whatever weight they finally achieve,” said Dr. Wyllie.
“We need to recognize obesity as a multifaceted condition that requires interventions that address both the physical and psychological needs of the patient,” Dr. Basford added.
Off-label uses for GLP-1 drugs
Of the 13 GLP-1 medications listed by the FDA, only three, Wegovy (semaglutide), Saxenda (liraglutide), and Zepbound, (tirzepatide), are officially listed as approved for weight loss. However, they are commonly prescribed “off-label” for this purpose.
Dr. Ali explained that the lack of official approvals in this case may be less than they seem. “That’s just a drug company strategy for getting a broader indication for these medications — rebranding them and marketing them for weight loss.”
The cost of a GLP-1 medication may be intimidating in that one needs to remain on the drug long-term to maintain its effect for diabetes, weight loss, or perhaps a reduction in depression and anxiety.
Dr. Ali noted that “It is difficult to get it covered by most insurance companies,” but said many will pick up the tab if the individual meets medical qualifications. For weight loss, for example, one needs a Body Mass Index of 30 or above to obtain coverage from some insurance carriers.
