https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/
2023 in medicine: Artificial sweeteners, colon cancer, and male birth…
How much should you exercise for a longer, healthier life? Study…
Why binge drinking is more dangerous for your liver than daily alcohol…
Managing chronic inflammation with psoriasis
Weight loss rarely leads to type 2 diabetes remission in real-world…
What causes brain cell death in Alzheimer’s disease?
Higher antioxidant intake may lower risk of low back pain in women
How a new tool can help determine a person's likelihood of developing…
How unexpected weight loss can sometimes be an indicator of cancer
Migraine linked to increased risk of IBD in new study
Lack of exercise in free time may increase risk of cardiovascular…
Rheumatoid arthritis: 30-minute session of exercise may help lower…
Why adults who develop type 1 diabetes are being diagnosed with type 2…
Alzheimer's treatments: The risks of monoclonal antibodies may…
2023 in medicine: Artificial sweeteners, colon cancer, and male birth control
In Conversation: Why exercise is key to living a long and healthy life
In Conversation: What do we know about the gut microbiome in IBD?
In Conversation: My podcast changed me
Through My Eyes: Stem cell donation
Caring for a parent who has bipolar disorder: How I learned to…
Through My Eyes: ADHD and avoidant restrictive eating
Through My Eyes: My friend, Migraine
Through My Eyes: Empowering my son to negotiate the 'autism cliff,'…
Through My Eyes: Why endometriosis almost killed me
Could dark chocolate have a blood pressure-lowering effect?
Why dancing may be better for weight loss than other forms of exercise
Colorectal cancer deaths on the rise among young adults: Experts…
Drinking fruit juice daily may lead to weight gain, particularly in…
Combining erectile dysfunction and chest pain drugs may be bad for the…
Ultrasound approach could deliver Alzheimer's drug straight to the…
Risk of heart and kidney disease is lower in people with type 2…
Energy drinks may cause ADHD, anxiety, depression among children…
How an extra 15 to 30 minutes of exercise per day can offset the…
Could cutting calories help slow brain aging?
Medical Myths: IBS myths and facts
Medical Myths: Endometriosis facts vs. fiction
Medical Myths: All about stroke
Medical Myths: All about COPD
Medical Myths: All about lung cancer
Medical Myths: All about IBD
How much protein do you need to build muscle?
Not all plant-based diets are the same: Junk veggie food and its…
Is it better to eat several small meals or fewer larger ones?
Intermittent fasting: Is it all it's cracked up to be?
Did the COVID-19 pandemic lead to changes in our personality traits?
Passion, exercise, and meaningful relationships are a boon to brain…
COVID-19: Did lockdown help or hinder our creativity?
Pandemic impact on mental health: A global overview
How much should I weigh for my height and age?
How to naturally lose weight fast
12 Home Remedies for Stomach Pain
Eighteen ways to reduce bloating
Anti-inflammatory diet: What to know
18 best foods for high blood pressure
What can I do to make my cough go away naturally?
What is the average baby weight by month?
What days can you get pregnant?
What are the worst fruits for someone with diabetes?
What does a right-sided headache mean?
13 home remedies for constipation
What is causing my rash? 71 possible causes
Six ways to do intermittent fasting
What foods are high in protein?
Everything you need to know about anxiety medications
How to get rid of trapped gas
The link between napping and Alzheimer’s
What causes upper stomach pain?
15 natural ways to lower your blood pressure
